Imagine a group of people who work to destroy Italy because, they claim, Italy's origins are illegitimate. Imagine further that these people maintain that of all the countries in the world, only Italy doesn't deserve to exist. And then imagine that these people vigorously deny that they are anti-Italian. Would you believe them? Now substitute Israel for Italy, and you'll understand the dishonesty and absurdity of the argument that one can be anti-Zionist - that is, against the existence of a Jewish state - but not anti-Semitic. But that is precisely what anti-Zionists say. They argue that Israel's existence is illegitimate. They don't believe this of any other country in the world, no matter how bloody its origins. And then they get offended when they're accused of being anti-Semitic. How can they make this argument? First, they change the topic. They say it's unfair to charge those who merely criticize Israel with being anti-Semitic. But criticism of Israel is fine. Denying Israel's right to exist isn't. Anti-Zionism isn't criticism of Israel. Anti-Zionism is opposition to Israel's existence. Zionism is the name of the movement that advocates for the return of Jews to their historic homeland. Over the past 3,000 years, there were only two independent states located in what is called Israel. Both were Jewish states and invaders destroyed both. No Arab or Muslim or any other country ever existed in that land, which was only named Palestine by the Romans to remove all memory of the Jewish state they destroyed in the year 70. Second, anti-Zionists claim they can't be anti-Jewish because Zionism has nothing to do with Judaism. That's equally false. It is the same as saying Italy has nothing to do with being Italian. Judaism has always - always - consisted of three components: God, Torah and Israel. If Israel isn't part of Judaism, neither is the Bible or God. Third, anti-Zionists claim that Judaism is only a religion; therefore, Jews are only members of a religion, not a nation. But the Jews are called a nation more than a hundred times in the Bible. That is why there can be irreligious, secular and even atheist Jews - because Jews are not only a religion. They are also a people, or a nation. There are no atheist Christians because Christianity is only a religion. Fourth, the anti-Zionists claim that Israel is illegitimate because it is racist. This is the fraudulent charge Israel-haters and America-haters make against two of the least racist societies in the world. Half of Israel's Jews are not even white, and anyone, of any race or ethnicity, can become a Jew. Plus, 1 of 5 Israelis isn't a Jew. And these Israeli citizens, mostly Arab Muslims, have the same rights as Jewish Israelis. As for Israel's control of the West Bank, that has nothing to do with race. Israel doesn't control the West Bank because Palestinians are of another race - but because Palestinians and their Arab allies tried to destroy Israel in 1967, and they lost the war. Palestinians have rejected offers to found their own state on five separate occasions since 1947. That's the only reason they don't have a state. And why have they always rejected building a Palestinian state? Because they have always been more interested in destroying the Jewish state. Finally, the anti-Zionists claim that Israel's origins are illegitimate. Of all the world's 200-plus countries, the only country anti-Zionists declare illegitimate is also the only Jewish one. That's pretty much all you need to know about their motives. Why, for example, don't they make this claim about Pakistan? In 1947, nine months before the establishment of Israel, India was partitioned into a Muslim state, Pakistan, and a Hindu state, India. Unlike Israel, Pakistan had never existed before. Unlike Israel's founding, which created about 700,000 Jewish refugees from Arab lands and about 700,000 Arab refugees from what became Israel, the founding of Pakistan created about 7 million Muslim refugees from India and about 7 million Hindu refugees from Pakistan. And while the highest estimate of Arab deaths in the fighting that took place when Israel was established is 10,000, the number of deaths as a result of Pakistan's creation is around 1 million. So why is Israel's legitimacy challenged while Pakistan's isn't? There is only one answer: Israel is the one Jewish state. Of course, not all anti-Zionists hate all Jews. But if you seek to destroy Italy, you don't have to hate every Italian to be anti-Italian. If you seek to destroy the one Jewish state, you don't have to hate every Jew to be an anti-Semite. I'm Dennis Prager.
What's up guys this is Will Witt with Prager U today we are in rural, Colorado It's extremely cold, but we're here today talking about the electoral college in, Colorado They want to get rid of the electoral college They want all of this state's electoral votes to go towards whoever wins the national popular vote in America This is unconstitutional the founding fathers made the electoral college to prevent the tyrannical majority from controlling the minority Imagine if you have a dollar and me and my cameraman both vote to take your dollar that's democratic That's the majority but that's not fair and the founding fathers knew this imagine states like Montana Wyoming New Mexico states with low populations if there is no electoral college That means states like California New York and Texas would dominate these states these smaller states with smaller Populations wouldn't have a voice without the electoral college the founding fathers made the Electoral College So that even the smallest minority would have a voice in all elections. Alright guys Thank you so much for watching If you want more people to know about the electoral college Share this video with your friends leave a like and comment your thoughts down below. So we'll wit with Prager you thanks for watching Thank you for watching this video to help keep Prager U videos free, please consider making a tax-deductible donation
What's up guys This is will wit with PragerU There are a ton of people out there right now talking about impeachment But most people don't even know what it means Let's go over it Impeachment is the act of removing public officials from office for serious misconduct. First The House of Representatives will pass a resolution for articles of impeachment if they feel like the public official should be impeached Second it goes to the Senate. The Senate can choose whether or not they want to hold a trial They don't have to but they can if they want to. If they vote in favor of impeaching the public official or President then that person is removed from office We've had two presidents who are both impeached by the house But neither of them were removed from office And on another note in case you didn't know if the President does get impeached the person who then becomes the President is the Vice President Impeachment is not about personal punishment If you don't like someone's policies or someone's mean that doesn't mean that you can just impeach them Impeachment is for serious misconduct in their role. Impeachment was not created as a partisan political weapon But as a tool to punish serious misconduct so the next time you hear people talking about impeachment and we have to get this person out of office remind them that Impeachment is not some partisan political weapon, but a tool to get people out of office for serious misconduct Thank you guys so much for watching. If you learned something in this video share with your friends coming your thoughts down below I'll see you in the next one. Peace Thank you for watching this video. To help keep PragerU videos free, please consider making a tax-deductible donation
Do Republicans win elections by preventing minorities - blacks, Latinos, and others - from voting? For those on the left and their allies in the major media, the answer is yes; even more than that, it's an article of faith. The usual example they offer is state laws, often passed by Republican-majority legislatures, requiring voters to present a photo ID at their polling place - something required in almost every other democracy in the world.According to the left, voter ID depresses minority turnout and is therefore a blatant form of racial discrimination. But there's a problem with this accusation: there's no evidence to support it.Minorities are voting in greater numbers and at higher percentages than ever before. The facts and figures are there for anyone to see.Still, progressives and most of the political press don't seem to have noticed. Or maybe they just don't want to look. At a 2019 NAACP dinner in Detroit, California Senator Kamala Harris told the audience that voter suppression in Georgia and Florida cost Democrats gubernatorial races in the 2018 midterm elections. Let's say this loud and clear, said Ms. Harris. Without voter suppression, Stacey Abrams would be the governor of Georgia. Andrew Gillum is the governor of Florida. A few days earlier, Ms. Abrams herself, apparently still bitter over her defeat, made a similar claim. We had an architect of voter suppression that spent the last eight years knitting together a system of voter suppression that is unparalleled in America, said Ms. Abrams in reference to her Republican opponent, a former Georgia secretary of state. But if minorities are harmed by mandating voter ID and other anti-fraud measures such as removing inactive voters from registration rolls, why does the evidence all point to the opposite conclusion? A recent Census Bureau report found that voter turnout in 2018 climbed 11 percentage points from the last midterm election in 2014, surpassing 50% for the first time since 1982.Moreover, the increased turnout was largely driven by the same minority voters Democrats claim are being disenfranchised.Black turnout grew around 27%, and Hispanic turnout increased about 50%. None of this comes as news to anyone who pays attention to sober facts instead of inflammatory rhetoric. The black voter turnout rate for the most part has grown steadily since the 1990s.This has occurred notwithstanding an increase in state voter-ID requirements over the same period. In 2012, blacks voted at higher rates than whites nationwide, including in Georgia, which was one of the first states in the country to implement a photo-ID requirement for voting. Ms. Abrams claims that Republicans have been hard at work trying to disenfranchise black voters, but the reality is that black voter registration is outpacing white registration in the Peach State. These gains are not limited to blacks. Voting has been up substantially in all minority groups. An analysis of the census data published by Pew Research Center found that all major racial and ethnic groups saw historic jumps in voter turnout in 2018. Political scientist Taeku Lee confirmed this in an op-ed for the New York Times in which he highlights impressive voting rates for minority women:The 2018 election set new benchmarks for turnout ina midterm election, with a whopping 30 million more people voting than in 2014. For women of color, the increased turnout was even more stark, at 37 percent. As to the issue of ensuring the accuracy and integrity of U.S. elections, minority voters appear to be as concerned as everyone else.Ms. Harris and Ms. Abrams may feel that requiring an ID for banking, flying, or buying cold medicine should not apply to voting, but most people don't seem to have that problem. In a 2016 Gallup poll, voter-ID laws were supported by 4 in 5 respondents, including 95% of Republicans, 63% of Democrats, 81% of whites and 77% of nonwhites. So if there is no serious opposition to voter ID laws and no evidence of voter suppression; if, in fact, more people of different races and ethnicities are voting at higher rates than ever before, why won't this voter suppression myth die? The answer is at once surprising and obvious: One party simply can't accept that they will lose a close election. If a Republican wins one of those, there has to be a nefarious reason. Voter suppression is as good as any - even if it has no basis in fact.Ms. Abrams lost, by the way, by over 50,000 votes. Elections are decided by the state of the economy, foreign policy issues, candidate personalities and a host of other factors.The non-existent problem of voter suppression is not one of them. I'm Jason Riley, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, for Prager University.
If you're a movie buff, you've probably seen a picture of a director, thumbs joined together, index fingers forming a square, showing the camera operator how to frame the shot. The camera can't see everything, right? The art of directing is framing every shot so the audience sees exactly what the director wants them to see. We all do something like this in making arguments, whether personal or political. It's not necessarily a bad thing. We only have so much time to make our points. But there is a downside. Often arguments end up unfairly skewed by the information they include or leave out. If you understand how framing works, you'll have a better chance of seeing through weak arguments and appreciating good ones. Let's look at some examples. Take socialism. Socialism is enjoying renewed popularity, especially among young people. Why is this, given the failure of the socialist model in places like the former Soviet Union, Cuba, and Venezuela? The answer is that socialism has been very cleverly framed by its proponents. Socialism, we are told, is morally superior because it makes people more equal. Those who have more than their fair share have to give it back. What could possibly be wrong with leveling the playing field? Who's against equality? When framed that way, socialism is made to seem the only moral choice. So if you're opposed to it, you're framed as regressive, selfish, and pretty much a jerk. Another example of framing is the issue of religious freedom. The American Civil Liberties Union website says that The Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment gives you the right to worship or not as you choose. The government can't penalize you because of your religious beliefs. It sounds good - but only because of the framing. The Constitution doesn't speak about the right to worship and to hold beliefs. Those are a given. The Constitution specifically defends the free exercise of religion. And that means freedom to act on your religious beliefs and not to be forced to violate them. And that also includes the right to influence others - just as secular people can. Yet people who want to exercise their religion in these ways are framed as bigots. Martin Castro, former chair of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights for the Obama Administration, wrote that religious freedom is a code word for discrimination, intolerance, racism, sexism, homophobia, and Islamophobia. So even if courts uphold your religious freedom, you're still a hater. Speaking of hate, hate speech is another example of framing. Hate speech is not free speech is a common refrain on college campuses. And what counts as hate speech? Whatever people who say hate speech is not free speech find hateful. And that number is growing at an alarming pace, according to several recent studies. There are many other examples. People who question climate change policies are framed as science deniers; people who oppose abortion - even late-term abortion in a healthy pregnancy - are framed as waging a war on women. So how does someone who wants to present the other side of these arguments deal with this framing tactic? First, reject biased framing. Now that you know what framing is, you'll be able to spot it. That's half the battle. Say something like, Do you think that's the whole story? Let me suggest another way of looking at it. Second, get yourself up to speed on the big issues. Don't expect someone else to fight your battles. Read up. Memorize some bullet points. You know what they're going to say. You hear their arguments all day in the major media and in your classrooms. But here's where you have an edge: it is unlikely they've ever heard your arguments. You might be surprised what happens when they do. Third, set some basic ground rules. Bury the insults: no name calling. General statements are fine, but they need to be backed up with examples. Make it clear that you're prepared to hear their arguments. In turn, they have to commit to hear yours. And then, may the best argument win. If nobody budges, that's fine. You've had a respectful exchange of ideas. If nothing else, that's a victory for civil discourse - and we certainly could use more of that! Just don't forget to look out for biased frames. They're great for making movies, but not for finding truth. I'm Jeff Myers, president of Summit Ministries, for Prager University.
The bigger the government, the better for women. Is that statement true or false? Well, if party affiliation is any indicator, most women under the age of 40 would say true. Young women, especially single women, are among the left's most loyal supporters. This isn't surprising given that programs like government-subsidized childcare and government-mandated paid family leave sound like things that make life better for women. But do they really? Most European governments provide subsidies that allow women to stay home for months - even years - following the birth of a child. And some European countries require employers to offer female employees part-time and flexible work arrangements. So, have European women benefited from these programs? The answer is no - unless you think lower wages, fewer jobs, and few management opportunities benefit women. Why is this the case? Because these supposedly women-friendly government mandates change the way businesses evaluate female employees. It encourages companies to assume that women will not only cost them more, but that they'll be less productive than men. Spain is a good example. In 1999, that country passed a law giving women with young children the right to work reduced hours. But a study by economists at the IE Business School in Madrid and at Queens College of the City University of New York, found that women paid a big price in lost opportunities. Companies were less likely to hire women of childbearing age, less likely to promote them, and more likely to dismiss them, compared with men. When Chile tried similar policies, similar outcomes resulted. In the words of Maria Prada, an economist for the Inter-American Development Bank: [The purpose of the law was] to help [women] participate in the labor force and achieve more work-family balance, and it's doing the opposite. A study of 22 countries by two Cornell economists showed that in countries with the most extensive benefits for women, women are more likely to be in dead-end jobs, and less likely to become managers or top executives. This is because once the government mandates additional benefits for women, employers place them on the mommy track, meaning they assume women will want to work fewer hours, whether that's true or not. This might explain why in the United States, where these benefits are not mandated, women account for more than 40 percent of senior managers while in more progressive Europe, that number is a little over 30 percent. But Big Government doesn't throw obstacles only at women trying to get ahead. It throws obstacles at women struggling to get by. Here we don't have to go to Europe to find examples. There are plenty in the United States. Take the issue of occupational licenses - government regulations requiring a license to pursue particular professions. Sure, people operating dangerous and complex equipment should have to get special training, take tests and be licensed. But why are occupational licenses required for hair shampooers and braiders? In some states, licenses are even required for interior designers and florists. Getting licenses can require hundreds of hours of schooling and entail major fees. That's not about protecting consumers or public safety. That's a source of revenue for city and state governments, and a way for some politically powerful lobby groups to keep out competition. And since more women obtain occupational licenses than men, women are disproportionately hurt. So, what's the solution? Less government, not more. Since 2017, a combination of tax cuts and deregulation (meaning less government) have been a boon for women. Women's weekly median earnings have gone up by almost 5 percent. The unemployment rate for women has fallen to 3.4 percent an historic low. And more women are starting businesses than ever before. Between 2017 and 2018, women started almost two thousand businesses a day! Right now, there are an estimated 12.3 million women-owned businesses, a 6% increase since 2016. And here's the topper: Since 2017, more and more businesses have voluntarily offered family benefits to employees. Why? Because the more companies have to compete for workers, the more benefits workers receive. That's how the free market works - and the opposite of how big government works. The free market, it turns out, does a much better job at creating opportunities for women than big government does. This not only means better jobs and better pay for women, but also the chance to craft the lives they actually want. After all, not every woman needs or values a generous childcare package. But when the government mandates benefits, they become, in effect, taxes that every woman and man has to pay. The bigger the government, the better for women? You might want to rethink that one. I'm Carrie Lukas, President of Independent Women's Forum, for Prager University.
If the Nobel Peace Prize was given out to people who truly made the world a more peaceful place, one group would win every year: the United States military - the US Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marines. Now, you may be thinking, how can you award a peace prize to a group whose purpose is to fight wars? Fair question. I'll tell you how: because the reason we are free, the reason anyone on earth today is free, is ultimately thanks to the US military. They saved the free world from German domination in the First World War. They saved the free world from Japanese and German fascism in the Second World War. They saved the free world from communism in the Cold War. And they're saving it now. That might sound like an exaggeration, but only because they've protected us for so long. National security - the protection of citizens from an external foe - is not a given; far from it. It's the product of the hard work of American military men and women who stand guard 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, every year. And, they've been doing so for as long as any of us can remember. The First World War, the Second World War, the Cold War, the Korean War, both Iraq Wars, the Afghan War - these were all conflicts that the US tried to avoid. But they were wars that the US fought not only for itself, but for good, decent and free people everywhere. Where the US military was not ultimately victorious - the Vietnam War - 50 million people were deprived of freedom of speech, of assembly, of press, of travel, and of religion. As many as two million were brutally imprisoned and murdered. The only reason South Korea isn't an open-air concentration camp like its northern neighbor is because America came to South Korea's defense nearly 70 years ago. To this day, we still have 30,000 troops stationed there to protect the free South from the unfree North. And it's not just the open conflicts the American military resolves; it's the not-wars - all the conflicts that were never fought because our adversaries feared the consequences of American military involvement. Let's put it this way: The reason Iowa soybeans can be shipped from Seattle to Shanghai, or coffee from Colombia to Cleveland is because the American military - specifically, the Navy - stands guard over the world's shipping lanes. Block those lanes and the price of everything skyrockets, and international commerce grinds to a halt. Like it or not, the US military has been, and remains, as close to a global sheriff as exists on planet Earth - on the beat, keeping the peace. Don't believe me? Ask yourself this very simple question: What if China disarmed? Or Iran? Or North Korea? Or Russia? Think the world would be a better or worse place? The question answers itself. Now, imagine if America disarmed. Think China stays out of Taiwan or Hong Kong? Iran out of Israel? North Korea out of South Korea? Russia out of eastern Europe? And those are just state actors. Islamists would quickly return, bolder and more vicious than ever. In short, new conflicts would spring up and old ones reignite all over the world. Freedom would be in retreat every single day. That's the dystopian future of a world without the US military. And that's because across the globe for the last 100 years and more, the bad guys have been thwarted - not only by the American military, of course. But in every major conflict, American military force has been decisive. That's why when you meet a veteran, someone who served in the Armed Forces, you should thank them. We have even set aside a special day for it: Veterans Day. Not Memorial Day. That's for those who lost their lives fighting for America and for freedom. Veterans Day is different. It's for all those who risked their lives so that we could keep ours. If that's not worthy of a thank you, what is? So this year, put out a flag, call a veteran, someone who honorably served in the US military - maybe your dad or mom or uncle, or family friend, and thank them. Let them know that you know that you are in their debt. We have been in their debt for so long, it's easy to take what they did - what they risked and what they sacrificed - for granted. We shouldn't. Veterans Day is meant to remind us. This year, don't forget. I'm Pete Hegseth, U.S. Army Major, for Prager University.
The mass shooting at the Borderline Bar and Grill in Southern California on November 7, 2018 is a tale of men and masculinity. Lost in the carnage is a lesson we would all be advised to heed. That lesson has little to do with the monster who took lives and everything to do with the men who saved lives. The killer was 28 years old, lost, lonely and living with mom. He had been a regular at the Borderline Bar and Grill. He knew that on Wednesdays - college country night - the place would be packed with kids laughing and dancing. He entered tossing smoke grenades, then unloaded his handgun - fitted with an illegal extended magazine - into the crowd. But there were other young men there, too. One of them was 20-year-old Matt Wennerstrom. In interviews, Wennerstrom looks like a typical college student - backward baseball cap, gray T-shirt, jaw scruffy with a few days' growth. On camera, he seems laconic, humble, willing to answer questions; neither eager for the limelight nor afraid of it. As soon as he heard the shots, Wennerstrom told ABC News, he knew exactly what was going on. He and some friends grabbed everyone they could and pushed them down behind the pool table, placing their own bodies on top of the girls. One woman, who was celebrating her 21st birthday, told Good Morning America: There were multiple men who got on their knees and pretty much blocked all of us with their back toward the shooter, ready to take a bullet for every single one of us. When the shooter paused to reload, Wennerstrom grabbed a bar stool and tossed it through a window. He and his buddies pulled 30 to 35 people to safety. After getting each group safely to the parking lot, Wennerstrom and his buddies went back for more. A reporter asked Wennerstrom how he knew immediately what was going on in the loud, crowded bar. Instinct, I guess, he said. I'm here to protect my friends, my family, my fellow humans, and I know where I'm going if I die, so I was not worried to sacrifice. All I wanted to do is get as many people out of there as possible. This is the masculinity we so often hear denigrated. It takes as its duty the physical protection of others, especially women. This masculinity doesn't wait for verbal consent or invitation to push a person out of harm's way. It sends hundreds of firefighters racing up the Twin Towers to save people they've never met. And it sent Sgt. Ron Helus of the Ventura County Sheriff's Office rushing into Borderline Bar and Grill, where the shooter was waiting for him. I gotta go handle a call, Helus had just told his wife over the phone. I love you. The 54-year-old husband and father died at the hospital from the wounds he suffered as he tried to stop the rampaging gunman. The way so many women have a natural ease with caring for children, so many men have the instinct to protect and serve. It is a refined sort of masculinity that must be developed and praised. The military has done this for years. Police academies and fire departments do it, too. Only the educated classes have learned to sneer at it. Would that they never need it. There will always be young men like the Thousand Oaks shooter - full of rage, mentally unstable, failing to launch. We can work to eliminate the threat they pose or treat whatever mental disease hobbles them. But we will never stop every evil-doer from obtaining weapons. The extended magazine that enabled the shooter to fire so many rounds is already illegal in California. As many laws as we pass, we will never eradicate evil. So here's the lesson: Masculinity is a style of behavior, not a code of conduct. It can be used for great good and it can be perverted into evil. One of the most important tasks of a moral society must be to make boys into good men. If we continue to disparage the male impulse to act heroically - if we mock those who want to protect women - we will fail in our task. Yet many seem bent on doing just that, especially in our institutions of higher education. Fortunately, Matt Wennerstrom and his friends missed the lecture that young women don't require male protection. Thank God they did. I'm Abigail Shrier for Prager University.
I have Burgess Owens University of Miami hall-of-famer First-round draft pick to the New York Jets and of course Superbowl world champion with the Oakland Raiders Burgess Owens welcome to the Candace Owens show What the left has done is eliminated erased our history So we kind of think we've gone from slavery to all sudden liberals gave us the right to vote in 1960s and all in between those great great Americans that paid the price they went out build their businesses built their families When I went to war fought for our country Those things are not taught And once we learn that we realize that we are truly blessed to be in this country and a to have The the lineage we had to stood the strong as they did for the things they did Everybody's made it happen has failed to the process They failed their way to success because that's the way it works in the process of that up going through That is how we really be done. Not only to appreciate the opportunity, but we appreciate each other and realize what we've done together Too many people are concerned about getting along and being liked If you put in priorities the right things God family country and race If those are more important who cares who likes you The legacy will be what you did to make a difference not how many people like you
Great All right, guys We are rolling in to another episode Of the Candace Ellen's show and I am so pleased to introduce you guys to a man who needs no introduction He has one of the greatest Sounding voices I have ever heard Sebastien Gorka, welcome to the Candace Owen show greetings. Thank you for having me Candace. I'm trying to get on your level I want to sound like that I want to sound that important and that powerful and that's why I invited you here so I can learn some lessons she goes That's the answer. I don't smoke cigars. I leave that to the men. I don't think women smoking cigars looks good So I want to start somewhere where we haven't actually I want to increase in my audience way They've never heard you before I want to start with your childhood. Who is Sebastian Gorka? Who is Gorka before he got into American politics and he started fighting and he was working in the White House? Where are you from? Tell me about your beginnings. Were you rich? Where you poor? Where does it all begin? All right Well first things first I have to commend you I think most of America owes you a debt of gratitude You're one of the real freedom fighters out there and what you're doing what Dennis Prager you the Candace Owens show It gives hope for us as a patriot. So first things first. Thank you candies, and congratulations on your recent wedding You're rebuilding the special relationship with the UK and I appreciate that so my childhood my understanding of America of the fate of Western civilization is Embedded in my family history my parents grew up as children on the Under occupation by Nazis in Central Europe, so my parents were born and raised in the u k-- in hungary, my father was Nine years old when world war ii erupted after surviving the devastation of world war ii the Communists took over and my father tried to resist that new dictatorship He was eventually betrayed by a British double agent called kim Philby was arrested tortured and given a life sentence in a political prison in Hungary at the age of 22 years in solitary three years down a prison coal mine. He was eventually Liberated in 1956 by the freedom fighters that fought the Communists for ten glorious days of liberation He escaped from prison and with the seventeen-year-old daughter of a fellow prison, mate they literally hand-in-hand crossed a minefield into Free Europe ended up as refugees in Austria and Eventually in the UK. They were married that seventeen year old girl became My father's wife and my mother I was born and raised in the UK a free man, but with that understanding that Reagan gave us the loss of Liberty. The extinction of Liberty is always one generation away So I grew up in a middle-class home. My parents were architects my mother taught architecture in in in London but as soon as the iron wall the iron curtain fell I Felt a tie to the country of my parents. I spoke fluent Hungarian and I moved to Hungary To assist in the transition or the return of that nation to freedom I worked in the first freed alert freely elected Conservative government in Budapest for five years And then eventually met an American girl in Europe and and the rest is history We can talk about what happened how 9/11 changed my life but my childhood was as a very blessed Young boy in West London the child of refugees who had literally escaped dictatorship Candace Did you ever think and this is a crazy point to start out? But Jeff I think that you would be raised by people or your father who was born under Nazi occupation And fast forward to today in you are accused of being a Nazi I mean just think about that right at the same way that you're supposed to be a white Supremacist race on my grandfather who grew up on a sharecropping farm, right? And so that's sort of a lunacy on the left that I try to tell people these names mean nothing anymore Sadly, they don't Oh what the left has managed to do and it's one of the most reprehensible things about identity politics Is that the Democrat Party which has true if you want to see? institutionalized anti-semitism It has been embraced by the DNC by the Democrat Party As long as you have people like Alexandra or Casa Cortez, Ilhan Omar Ishita Talib who are proud in their anti-semitism whether it's the the boycott divestment Sanction movement whether it's somebody who says on 9/11 some people did something or call the Jews? evil people who've hypnotized the West Anti-semitism has become an infection a disease on the left and as you say words like Fascism or Nazism they have been denuded of any content by the left when people accused me of being a Nazi Because I work for Donald Trump, which is what they did in the White House I had one journalist one journalist alone wrote 42 hit pieces on me while I was in there in the White House well done It's a good That's that's that's journalist so when people Attack me for being a fascist simply because I work for somebody who's not Hillary Clinton Then you realize the world is upside-down. Right? We have a situation today. Where the most Pro Israeli produce president in modern times probably since 1948 is in the White House a man whose most senior adviser is his Jewish son-in-law a man whose grandchildren are Jewish and He's the anti-semite you're the white nationalist. I'm the fascist It's saddening, but at the end of the day look I I realized very early on it was tough on me Mostly tough on my wife and my children when they did these kinds of things in the press But I realized one thing very early on When I was a kid, you asked about my childhood. My parents were very worldly. We would Vacation abroad most often in France and there was a moment. I was seven or eight years old my father was a huge athlete of a man a real bear of a man and he liked to swim and I was sitting on the beach with my GI Joes playing one day and I remember this I will up till my dying day My father comes out of the ocean after a swim And I look at him and I noticed something I hadn't really noticed before and a dumb Seven-year-old says hey Dad. What are those lines on your wrists? Because he was he was too young to be wrinkled on his wrists and without skipping a beat with no emotion candies He looked at me and he said oh That's where the secret police bound my wrists together with wire Behind my back so they could hang me from the ceiling of the torture chamber. So when the Huffington Post When The Daily Beast say I'm a fascist in a Nazi I say bring it They're just words You don't get to hang me from the ceiling of a torture chamber Like my dad so bring it because we will win you are fueled by hatred. The left today is Fueled by hatred we on the right as conservatives are fueled by love. Love of country. Love of liberty Love of our founding principles. So at the end of the day, I'm good with it Candace. I say the same thing I feel remarkably privileged because I get that question all the time. How do you put up with it? How do you deal with this and I say you go just just a couple of generations ago and you've got my grandfather picking cotton? And laying out two back on a dry on a sharecropping farm I have to deal with the daily beast calling me a black white supremacist. I mean, it's almost it's I'm privileged That's a lap of luxury if that's the worst thing I have to deal with as a black conservative today then I'm remarkably privileged right but not only that and this is also an important metric it is a sign that you are winning when I've seen all the videos of Your debates when you're lecturing They never come close because they cannot beat you on the merits of the case They just say you're you're a house negro, you're an Uncle Tom you're this and and I say, okay we'll explain to me Why black America should be should should want more welfare as it explained to me why socialism works social son doesn't work Welfarism has been proven to be a complete disaster since its inception for black America in the 1960s So they just do the name-calling and they hope and this is the sad thing because I say they hope it'll work But in some cases it does We see that people just read headlines and they accept it as the truth without even thinking beyond the headline But it's not about thinking I had on my show yesterday on America first, you know I sometimes get liberals and I want to debate them so I'll let them I'll connect with them and this individual was clearly black and he said Everything you're saying about the economy and Donald Trump is a lie It's a lie And it was as if there was some Vulcan mind-meld on the top of my prep fee for that day was an article from the Washington Post very rare that I have the Washington Post in my show prep and the headline was Largest growth in jobs in America is for black Americans and I read the headline to the caller From the Washington Post and he said that's just fake news. I said, oh so now the Washington Post is fake news There is no logic there is no analysis As you said it's just mudslinging we look what you are doing is pushing back on the indoctrination It is shocking that the victims of communism foundation in its last poll found that 52% Of Millennials would prefer to live in a socialist or communist America that is frightening given the fact that a hundred million people died in the last century as a result of Communism as a result of socialism, but here's the good news You know Austin flaccus, you must know right? So on my favorite channels is flickers talks This is the man who looks like a millennial. He's got the big beard He's got the football jersey and he goes into these crazy places He's auntie for rallies these impeachment rallies with his little camera his wooden spoon in his microphone and you've got to watch The duration of his debate because they think he's one of them and he just asked totally neutral questions and by question three That's it. They're out of talking points. There's nothing left So the good point is the indoctrination is scary and it's broad but it is yay deep canis It is so superficial that if we bring the facts not just the fact it's probably personal experience your experience Your experience of being you know, a political I I've heard the whole story then suddenly woke up in your eyes What are they saying about Donald Trump? He wasn't a racist until he became president. How did that happen? Any anybody can play the game but I am Telling You you grow up you listen hip-hop music everybody. Let's beat Donald Trump That was but jay-z Beyonce mar-a-lago. It was everybody song. Everybody was cool. Then he ran for president It was like forget everything we've said for the last two decades He's he's an avowed racist and I was just like since when you know, did he pop that ever I was going to his parties? And everybody loved him because he was the idea of the American dream of yeah Yeah of exorbitant wealth and he was the man and then he ran for president and I just said to myself How can we be so foolish just accept that narrative and to see people that are so brainwashed And and they stick to that narrative now tell you something funny about what you say about this not being a very deep narrative so I came across fuck us because he unbeknownst to me was outside of one of my talks and he conversely So I was with Charlie Kirk and a mob I mean 200 kids at the University had showed up They had police barriers to protest so fuck us talk what he went around and he said very simple mutual question What are you here protesting right said and and the kid said? Charlie Kirk and Candace Owens. Well what specifically are you protesting and racism and white supremacy And he said do you so you think Candace owns the white supremacist and then the kid would go Well, no and So there's something about the mob right where if you get a bunch of people together They can be proactively stupid together right when you peel them out one by one and go. Hey, what are you doing here? This is fascinating. So this is really important So when I was in the White House from both my wife and I we were political appointees I was deputy assistant to the president for strategy my wife at his senior position at DHS and One day my wife is driving home from DHS headquarters, and she's a totally non-combative individual she does She's learned a little bit from me but her first You know reaction was me to avoid any kind of conflict and she sees a bunch of kids with banners Protesting outside a university in North DC and she's slowing down in the traffic and she sees the signs she goes Fire Gorka the effing Nazi and its photographs of me and my wife I just I was shocked when she did this she was on the phone with my daughter at the time And she said they're protesting daddy. She stops the car gets up and walks over to them and and she says, you know all that stuff on the That's all lies It's been debunked by Jewish authors who know that Sebastian Gawker is the most Pro Israeli produce person You could find and as soon as and she invented it Oh and I happen to be his wife as soon as she challenged them it just melted away This is what we have to remember. This is the the the home-field advantage of the left. There is no massive conspiracy Okay, we have a propensity on the right to get into kind of tinfoil hat territory There's a lot of conspiracy theorists out there and it's it's bad for our brand and it's bad for critical thought, you know Obama isn't sitting in a cave somewhere with a joystick Controlling the left or or George Soros. Yes. He's rich Yes, he's spending too, you know get people elected, but there isn't some master plan But there is and I learned this from some very wise advisers I had when I was in the White House is a mob mentality It's like the Balch from Star Trek. It is a hive mind and if they get the script this shallow narrative They will come to protest you. They'll come to protest Charlie but as soon as one person innocently says, okay. So so how exactly is she a white supremacist? How is the fact that that sebastian Walker's family suffered under fascism? How does that make him a Nazi and then it's just it melts It's like the witch from The Wizard of Oz just melts away so that that's the good news The bad news is and this is what I write about in my new book the war for America's soul They've been doing this for 40 years This didn't come out of nowhere. I mean that it's not an accident that Hillary Clinton interned with sworn elinsky in my new book I have an appendix which is her thesis from college that she wrote on a bond Saul Alinsky when she worked for Saul Alinsky the only photograph Check it the only photograph you can find of Obama constitutional lawyer Teaching law the only photograph you can find on the Internet is him in front of a chalkboard. What's it? What's he drawing? he's diagramming out Saul Alinsky's rules for radicals. This isn't this isn't a massive conspiracy It's what they called the MA through the institutions and they've been building for 60 years I do a lot of conservative speaking just like you do and a lot of places people ask me. How did we get here? How did we get here that Millennials one of voting Bernie Sanders and I say you want to know who's responsible I got some bad news for you look in the mirror in 1968 they wanted to take over this country You saw it with the Weather Underground terrorist organization the students for a Democratic Society Bernadine Dohrn Bill Ayers They tried to take over America. There was they these people Detonated bombs at the State Department at the Pentagon we forget this in a privileged white Americans were trying to create a Marxist revolution. What happened? Totally fizzled out and this is the land of the f-150 and you know 70 out steaks We're not we're not gonna become communists in a revolution. So what did they do when they failed? They didn't say Oh, well, I'm gonna go back to my daddy's trust fund or I'm gonna become a poet on a for farmer They had read their Lenin they'd read their style and it read their mouths aid read their Hitler. What did all of these guys say? Give me their children and I will own their future Bernadine Dohrn bill ayers After being terrorist became what? Tenured university professors and what did we do on the right? We bloody left them So you want to know why 52 percent of Millennials think communism is a cool thing Because we let them take over Education college the media it's time and that's why turning-point USA Praeger you what you do you do is so Absolutely crucial. It's reversing the indoctrination and I say look III was on the Left I I thought I had to be a liberal because I was black if you had asked me think about this. This is crazy Computers think about this if you would ask to me five years ago I would have said I was a liberal I cried when Obama won and and and then I had this mass awakening and I realized that we are literally Voting black people into poverty we would nothing has changed. It's fixed for 60 years. Nothing has changed and they used the same tactics They haven't even update the tactic keep repeating it. All we're gonna do is just call the other side ray Syst more racist This is bracelets what he pauses to think but worse not now it's open Racism with their own supporters when I on oppressed. It says if you've got black skin. You better have a black voice I'm like, what does that mean? Right. What does that mean? It means what do they do? They all block me? I go What does that mean it and this is how you know their ultimate cowards because they love saying that this is what Bucky will have to think but when you challenge them and you say get In the room, I'll have a debate with you. Nobody wants to do it AOC has me blocked, you know, IANA, I think a on oppressed his situation. Yeah. She blocked me She blocked me cuz I just kept calling her out because I'm sick and tired of black people being used like pawns Every election cycle. That's what drives me crazy. There are not even pretending to make the communities better anymore They just call the other person racist. It's fear tactics. It's saying I know what scares you the idea of racism and slavery So we're gonna drum up that red trick and they lie and the audacity of the lies and you're speaking about these people on campus That don't know what they're talking about I had a young black girl who was outside of one of my events and she was like she's holding a poster and it was A quote. I never said she thought it was a quote that said Candace Owens and it said Racism does not exist because I was never a slave. This is amazing So they excerpt my CPAC speech made a whole different sentence, right? So I I have never once ever said racism does not exist ever I said that racism is not an issue that is confronting black America to say there's by the way There's always gonna be racists because it's always gonna be dumb people It's gonna feel that hate white people wimpy people that hate black people people that hate Hungarians people that hate gay people So the idea that you're gonna deplete hate is foolish, right? Is it preventing me as a black American from getting from point A to point B in this society? The answer is no what is preventing me as a black person getting from point A to point B Well, I think liberal policies. I think the love affair sisters. I think the breakdown of the family I think I want black fathers in the home I say all this in a speech and they excerpt and I say and by the way I don't want to talk about slavery because I've never been a slave in this country I want to talk about the things that I've experienced while I've been alive in this country. I Mean and it's Lent and you got this girl and she was shaking with the potion I walked up to her and I said, you know, thank you for coming I've never said that quote and I said dig that did you actually go watch the speech of what I said that sees back and She was just shaking and she was so scared I said I'd love to invite you into the speech to actually see what I'm about I'd love to get you involved and you know She declined and then afterwards she said to the press that I was quite nice to her, but that's the uphill battle Is there just reading the headlines? They're not actually going to hear what can if someone's actually thinks right? look I get asked a lot of career advice from people are just starting off especially in the national security field or the media field And it's it's quite pathetic that I'd say to them whatever you want to be whether you want to be a counterterrorism Expert whether you want to have a radio show whether you want to be a brain surgeon I'll give you one piece of advice all of you. Very simple read books How many people under the age of 50 set aside an hour a day switch off the phone? Switch off the computer and actually read or get to know something from a primary source You know If you look at the duration of how people get information According to the latest statistics this week the majority of Millennials get their information from YouTube the majority What's the average time people watch videos on YouTube between 3 & 6 say 3 minutes 3 to 6 minutes is the average If you if somebody watches your clip and it's 6 minutes long, you're done. You're doing very very well on YouTube So you're supposed to understand something like the economy? Race relations the history of America or whether Isis is a threat in a 3 minute video It's not gonna happen, but that's what we have to fight and that's what you're doing every day well I think that the younger people actually don't even have the attention span and that attention span is being broken up by social media and Social media was actually designed in that way. So My husband told me that he said that when you that pull measure that you have to refresh They actually were thinking when they built that of slot machines in a casino, right? Yeah the next thing to happen, which is fascinating to consider So to get somebody to sit down like you said and and to have that focus in that attention span It's really really hard for Millennials and the age under and that's a part of the uphill climb that we're facing today But what are you seeing? I need to know. What are you seeing in the black community in America? Because if you look at the figures, there's something happening. Oh, it's Cracking and look love me or hate me you feel something, right? And and that's enough for me. If you hate Candace Owens you feel something. The problem was nobody was feeling anything We were just this monolith that we were just you know, like sheeps Just walking to the slaughter and no one really had the audacity to say something and this is why I credit Kanye West so much Because I had kind of made, you know, a lot of things happen in the political realm But the political realm wasn't talking to the cultural realm. This was a major problem, right? Andrew brave arugula takes his down stream from culture and black America has been so seized culturally because of the breakdown of the family Removed mom and dad from the home where the word of the black boys and the black girls go Well, you don't have a mom and dad telling you what's right, and what's wrong? Hip-hop. Jay-z and Beyonce become mom and dad Kanye West and Kim become mom and dad right? You care what they say What is t I saying that's what I should be following so that conversation had to be for Kanye. Just tweet those seven words I love the way Candace on stage and the photograph the photograph of you Charlie and Kanye That was a pivotal moment in my cultural history, right? And then they're talking about me and they still they talk trash about me every day. Great You know I'm saying absolutely fabulous and a lot of them Are just starting to see a different angle and you're seeing that happening which like Charlamagne tha God Who has one of the most successful hip-hop radio stations? It's part of that The Breakfast Club, he and I talked actually quite frequently and look we don't agree on everything But he agrees that something's wrong here. Right and and he's had the audacity to challenge Elizabeth Warren he's because they all go through the show That was the famous one where Hillary Clinton said Uh hot salsa in her bag right when they said what's something you carry in your bag, and she said hot sauce Yeah, right ultimate pander to black America. You do not have hot sauce in your bag Hillary Clinton You think it's a clever play off of Beyonce song but to see them start to challenge I've never seen that before in the hip-hop community so there's an awakening happening but the struggle is is that they don't want to get behind Trump because he's been so Falsely branded as a racist and they don't have the audacity to say You know what then in this narrative really adds up or makes sense. He's been in office for two years How has Donald Trump hurt black America? It's a very straightforward question. I have no one there is no answer to the question How has has black America been negatively impacted by Donald J Trump. There is no answer to that question I can tell you how CNN has negatively impacted black American minds I can how MSNBC has negatively impacted black American minds I can tell you how when someone looks at you and tells you you can't you won't and that's been a major problem in black America We're constantly told we can't before we even gather bed and try you can't because of the color of your skin You can't because of institutionalized racism. You can't because white supremacy is back You can't because of white nationalism start telling black kids They can it's actually the opposite of what America was founded on because what you're saying the whole Now that you have to be rated based upon your victims status who has the higher victim status than somebody else based upon skin color Accent where there were, you know sexual preference that's the opposite of manifest destiny of anything is possible as soon as you start thinking in terms of categories as soon as you're spoken to as a Victim as you said, you're just gonna you're gonna self shutdown avenues You're gonna you're gonna lock doors that you would have said I'm gonna blow right through because that I am NOT a victim, so perhaps that's the way to approach this that this is this is a Self-limiting ideology that destroys your future which is what they just want dependency. All they want is utter Dependency on the elite and on the state and we have to break it. That's well that's why I call the left drug dealers and and what the drug that they've been selling to the black community as crack cocaine is Victimhood and and and now they're dependent on it. They constantly they feed the stories, right? There's tons of bad instance that can happen with police officers that happen to white men that happened to Hispanic men There are no headlines about them, right? We know that by rate white men and Hispanic men are gunned down unarmed at a higher rate than black American men what are the names of them anybody know a Hispanic American hero a white American man, that's been gunned down on arm by a police officer. No, why is that? Why is they only showing us these moments because it's like Plato's allegory of the cave They are creating a reality for black Americans and black Americans have no idea what's just around the corner from it if you step aside and say You know what? No. Thank you victimhood is cancer. You wonder what killed your future No, thought we get to play though. That's very impressive. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Yeah quite into that. Yeah I like to I like to read into all that stuff because you drew up a study philosophy And and of course I mean us all in many ways it is it kind of is a it grows off of a type of philosophy, right? And it's all rooted in something and it's really interesting to see and you have to understand what the left is doing if you're gonna actually make an attempt to reverse it right and and the big contribution that Olinsky made and you know if your viewers, you know Haven't done so you just need to read rules for radicals It is dated because it comes out of the 50s and 60s But what Saul Alinsky did is he gave a plan and and the revolutionary thing is he said? Ignore what Mao and Lenin everybody else tried to do which is to change the system from the outside. It's too tough The establishment is too strong and he said you've got to defeat it from the inside and that's when things Started to work when they became high school teachers when they took their philosophy into Hollywood into the media into the colleges That's when it all began that there was no resistance on the inside and that's how we are where we are today I won't talk to you about masculinity because this is something that I am just observing the the the cultural assassination of Masculinity it's no longer. Cool to be a man. It's longer cool if unless you have you have to be more effeminate you need to be acting more like women or there's something wrong with you and that scares me because when you remove strong men from a society when you remove the idea of masculinity it Contributes to so many other things first and foremost to break down a family, which I think is promoted by this Radicalized feminism that we're seeing here and I just wanted to know what your opinions on that and how it's going to impact America if we become a country of weak men first things first we have to Be careful not to judge America on in on the bubbles that we frequent Okay, so Los Angeles Washington DC is not America before I joined the White House. I was traveling 20,000 miles a month Lecturing the FBI and the US military on the threat of Isis. I got to see America I knew Something was happening When I got outside of Georgetown, the only yard signs I would see in America with Trump there would be no Hillary ArtScience Outside of Adams Morgan you get outside of you know, the bubble and you see a different kind of America That's an America where the masculinity that we all know deep down is Intrinsic to the male sex I think is very safe. I was traveling with my my wife and my daughter at the weekend and I won't say where I was but but after about 20 minutes I said to my daughter I haven't seen one manly man in the last 20 minutes where we are Everybody had their silly beanie hat so everybody had their short pants and their you know train is on and I thought and Sonny suddenly came to me because I saw something I said, you know what I find real. Hope and tell me if I'm wrong I hope I'm not wrong. I think the idea of men being men is still potentially alive in the black community the idea the metrosexual I don't think is something that's gonna go down while we have a problem with fathers not being there and Women depending on the state But the idea that if you are in a family the role of the male is to provide and to protect That's as it should be you are so right Can I just tell you I said this is someone I think it was Charlemagne the guy we were talking about how Mario Lopez got attacked for coming on my show when he just said something very simple Which is that it's never should have apologized. He shouldn't have apologized for apps I agree when he said it's dangerous when you start telling children, they can pick their gender and what I said is that if there is a black child that goes home and says Hey mom Hey dad today I went to school and I was allowed to pick my gender you are going to see black parents flooding into that Elementary school and that policy in reverse tomorrow. That is something that is not going to be tried in the black community I mean it's in and I actually get that's um, it's almost a safety net that we have. Yes, I Think there's a certain kind of genetic indoctrination There's a kind of safety barrier, but at least in one community that's not a white community There is a healthy attitude to what being a man is if the family is intact in the black community The man will be providing and the man will be protecting and God bless every single Macker as far as I'm concerned That's our job. Right? I don't care a man is a man woman is a woman I mean never gonna apologize for that a woman is Nurturing a woman cares a woman educates if they want a job I get it. That's fine but at the end of the day the ultimate Guarantor of that family safety and security is the man. It's been like that for about you know, ten thousand years There's a reason right and it's the yin and the yang you need both Yes And that's why people make you think that there's something weak about being someone that wants to raise their children have having that natural pole To nurture your children and to raise your children Feminism is teaching women that that's wrong Any woman in the ER at the age of fifty that that shows that kind of feminist, you know? The 1970s I'm burning my bra and went all out on that ask them are they happy at the end of the day if they're not in a loving relationship where the man has a masculine role where the woman has a feminine role You know the answer to that right the answer is they won't be happy. So what so what's your new book about? What's the title? So the time is the war for America's soul The first book that helped me get into the White House was defeating jihad That's my plan on how to beat Isis then we had after I left the White House I wrote why we fight there's a little bit about my experience in the White House working for the president and now because of 2020 I have to sit down and just number one what we have just discussed If you haven't read it my friends You need to buy Andrew Breitbart Sobotka righteous indignation. It is the most important book I have read in the last decade and Specifically chapter six and I built my book on this one chapter in Andrews book in Chapter six Andrew maps out how the left became so powerful in America and the world he goes back to nineteen 1930s Germany he maps out the rise of the Frankfurt School Alinsky what happened in Colombia and then on into the Democrat Party and it's not the conspiracy theory its names its dates its institutions and I wanted to give that a Breathe life back into what Andrew helped me to understand so I've written a book on number one what has happened in America and I open with a Personal story of what happened to me at my daughter's graduation like that. My daughter just graduated from college and It was an eye-opening experience for me it's a pretty liberal college as most of them are and I didn't want to create a Scene I'm recognizable. So my my wife and my mother-in-law and my Sister and all sat amongst everybody else and we waited for the ceremony and I removed myself. I Sat hidden under a tree somewhere where I could see my daughter, so I didn't want to want to raise attention Finally now halfway through the ceremony some cops come up to me and I think oh no what now? And they won't if they wanted selfies they you know They recognized me they wanted selfies and they start telling me stories about what happened to my daughter. My daughter had been attacked Anonymously in the college three weeks before the graduation because of her affiliation with an organization that Bears the name the Church of Institute which researches and celebrates Western civilization and because of that and her last name people put Anonymous posters all over campus saying this is the face of white Supremacy because you stand up for the civilization in which you are living and because your father worked for Donald Trump She has to be attacked on Facebook and with these posters and and I don't want to create any additional You know, this was her day. It's for her to celebrate The book starts with the story of what happened at the end of that celebration So everybody gets their certificates. It's a beautiful day We're in the courtyard this beautiful old college and I said, okay now I'm gonna walk back to my family and congratulate my daughter As I'm walking this slip of a girl she must have been 90 pounds dripping wet Comes up to me. She's not one of the students who's not wearing a gown. So she's either sister or whatever And she says to me she walks right up to me puts out her hand. She says are you Sebastian Walker? Are you the Sebastian Walker that worked in the White House for Donald Trump? And I smiled and I shook her hand said yes, that's me. Then. She said f off you Nazi So brave in front of witnesses at a graduation Kind of took me about look I'm six foot four. I'm 260 pounds. I used to play rugby. I'm not a small dude and I kind of stood there and I've been called lots of things and The night decided to follow her and I hope she cause she you know scarpered I walked up to her and she was clearly there with her mother and her grandmother and I said to her Who the hell do you think you are to call me what you just called me? my parents suffered under real fascists and Nazis Who do you think you are to use the language you used? With me and of course, no response my response So that's where my book opens what has the left wrought is the chapter and that's what they've wrought that a 19 year old girl who's less than a hundred pounds is so Completely brainwashed that She's been given a script and she's going to do that Then I map out how we got there Alinsky the frankfurt school everything I learned from the great andrew breitbart Then there's a chapter I don't read autobiographies But I read one in the last 10 years and it's JD Vance's the hillbilly elegy That opened my eyes and I used JD Vance's hillbilly elegy to explain to my readers. You know why Donald Trump is president because both both the Democrats and the Republicans Betrayed America, I said it in the White House. I said it since I left the White House Donald J. Trump became president Despite the GOP not thanks to the GOP We've had 40 years or being betrayed the idea that most of our stuff that we buy is made in China That's because Henry Kissinger told Nixon China is going to be a superpower we might as well just deal with it Why don't you go to China or make nice with them? I mean the idea that what Steve Allen calls the managed? collapse that the manage the managed decline was the only option America had the most powerful nation on God's earth and the elite said well, we're screwed China I'll take over and for 30 years. They've been facility I mean Google Google today won't work with the Defense Department, but it's helping Communist China Censor the internet from in front of its citizens. That's why Donald Trump was elected president So I explained that the betrayal of American society and then with a couple of fascinating interviews with One of my favorite people in the world today. That's a Victor Davis Hanson and Lord Conrad black I talked about why it has to be Donald Trump that opens the window to the salvation of the Republic and then I End with an interview with the president that we did in the Oval this year and just it's just a Creed a curve It's it's a battle cry that if you thought 2016 was important 2020 is much more important Donald Trump open the window And yes, he's the most powerful man in the world, but he's only one man and if you care for your individual liberty It's not a drug. I was made fun of at CPAC by the the mainstream fake news industrial complex because I said you know what? Al sees coming after your cheeseburgers She's coming after your cheeseburgers Which is something not even Stalin would have imagined trying to do and now three months later What happens Bloomberg says maybe Gorka was right, right You've seen it on the debate stage right farming of beef. It's all you you've got to stop eating beef It's not a joke cows fart too much. We've got to save mother earth Gaia must be worshipped You don't get to have a pickup truck. You don't get to fly in a plane because we we can change the weather. So 2020 is is Everybody says oh this is the most important election in in our lifetime Yeah, this time it really is right and 100% agree Well, we wrap up every episode by allowing you to leave a voice message for the world All right So you're gonna look into that camera And we're going to put two minutes on the clock and you have to say something that's gonna fall on the ears every single person in the world because they all Watch my show. I know that are you ready? I am on your mark get set world. I give you mr. Sebastian Gorka Never ever Give up never give in this nation was built on the backs of people who had courage There is a man in the White House right now who has given up everything for you we owe it to him to support this vision of making America great again if you're afraid of Posting something on social media. Don't be the stakes are too high Stand up for the truth call out the lies call out the insanity of the political correctness because it's not just about you It's not just about you being safe. It's about your children. It's about our children's children We are and always have been the greatest nation on earth. The only nation that lost six hundred Thousand of its citizens in a war to end slavery. That's who we are So as my law enforcement friends say keep your head on a swivel watch your stick six stay frosty never give up never give in because you know He won't I am Sebastian Walker. Follow me on Twitter at Seb Gorka SE be Geor ka I Love that that was awesome. Thank you so much. That wraps it. That's really I can't wait to read your book Thank you guys for watching the latest episode of the Candice Owens show I hope you guys enjoyed the conversation as much as I did as many of you guys already know Prager U is a 501c3 nonprofit Organization, which means we need your help to keep all of our content free to the public. Please consider making a tax-deductible donation Today, I would really appreciate your support
I want to talk to you about three words that should scare the heck out of you, especially if you're young: public pension liabilities. Okay, I know you probably have about a hundred things you're worried about, and public pension liabilities likely aren't one of them. But that's the reason this is so scary - because almost no one is paying attention. Unless you're okay with your city going full Detroit and giving more of your hard-earned money to pay off someone else's debts, stay with me. So what is a public pension liability? A pension is a guaranteed, lifetime payment to someone after they retire. Pensions used to be a big deal in the private sector. Every major American company had them. But they became too expensive, and companies have taken steps to phase them out. However, pensions still live on in the public sector - among employees of the government - and they're eating city and states' budgets alive.More and more money that could go to tax cuts or better services is instead being shoveled aside to pay for these benefits. Why is this happening? Over decades, politicians have promised trillions of dollars in pensions to government workers. That includes police, firefighters, teachers, and city and state officials. You name a government job, and there's a pension associated with it. Now, you may be wondering, How big are these payments? Many pensions are quite large. In California, more than 62,000 retired public employees are receiving pensions of over $100,000 per year. Sometimes, it's even crazier. A retired New York City sanitation worker is getting $285,000 per year. A retired county administrator in California receives over $400,000 per year. Remember, these are guaranteed lifetime yearly payouts. Now, we love our public employees. They do vital work for our local communities and the wider society. They deserve competitive pay and retirement benefits. But currently, many cities are, in effect, paying for multiple public departments at the same time: the department that's working now and, because people are living longer, a generation or two of retirees. The system amounts to a self-perpetuating, corrupt merry-go-round. Public-sector unions give large donations to candidates, who are then responsible for negotiating how much of your money goes to public sector workers. These arrangements not only promise high salaries in the short-term, but they also hide the payments that will be due down the road when it will be much too late. The results are predictable. State and local governments across the U.S. openly admit to 1.4 trillion dollars of unfunded pension liabilities, or $11,000 per household. Unfunded means dollars that have been promised, but there's no actual money in the bank. And that's just the amount they admit to. The real number, according to the Federal Reserve, is much larger - around 4 trillion dollars, or $32,000 per household. Pensions have already thrown California cities likeSan Bernardino and Vallejo into bankruptcy. And the entire state of Illinois is teetering on the edge. So how do politicians get away with this? They use a time-tested political strategy: they lie. They lie by saying they can pay for more and more generous pensions - not by collecting more taxes, but by making investments at a guaranteed 7.5% return. But this is nonsense. It's less and less likely they'll meet their 7.5% goal over time, and their investment behavior - pouring ever more funds into ever riskier investments - suggests they know it. But if they were to use a more realistic assessment, they'd need to raise taxes dramatically. And they love their jobs too much for that. We can, however, turn the odds in our favor - with public pressure, discipline, and common sense. Here's what needs to happen: First, we need state and local governments to report unfunded liabilities honestly: the real numbers - using the 2-3% yields that sound financial reporting would require. No more pie-in-the-sky stuff. The truth should shock voters into demanding action. Second, we must phase out the guaranteed pension programs as quickly as possible and introduce 401K plans. 401K plans, if designed properly, can provide excellent retirement benefits. These plans also have the advantage of being portable. If you leave the public sector and go work in the private sector, you get to take your money with you. In other words, you don't have to be locked-in to a lifetime government job to receive retirement benefits. Win-win. Let's end the current structure of public sector pensions and move to a sustainable way of compensating our public workforce. Save your city. Save your state. Save your money. I'm Joshua Rauh, professor of finance at Stanford and Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, for Prager University.
It started with this one email from from one of our supporters saying, "Hey, you know I was at the office today and I remembered watching this video last night and I wanted to show it to my colleague. But I pulled it up on my browser in the office and I wasn't able to find the video. What happened? Did you take the video down?" We first discovered that our videos were being restricted in 2016 and at the time that was 15 PraegerU videos. Since we filed our lawsuit and started speaking up on the issue, not only has that number grown, it's now over 200 videos restricted. It's almost as if YouTube and Google are punishing us for speaking out and fighting back. Dennis Prager operates Prager University, which creates videos online to educate people. He's recently sued Google and its subsidiary YouTube. Prager University taking on big tech the conservative group accusing Google owned YouTube of unfairly restricting its conservative videos. PragerU is a digital media group whose videos have hundreds of millions of views. But the company claims tech giants like Twitter and Google are trying to crack down on them and silence them for being conservative. So now PragerU is suing. This story that PragerU is suing YouTube, suing Google, it might be my favorite story in the news. 56 of 320 of our five-minute videos cannot be seen by any family that filters out pornography and violent by every school by every library. They can't. It just cannot be seen it's like it doesn't exist. If anyone has ever seen a PragerU video, they know that they are very educational and very appropriate. We're seeing that because of what they're doing is obviously wrong one-fifth of our portfolio are being either restricted or demonetized by YouTube and Google. They just ... which ones? ... Nobody knows why. You say anything positive about America it's restricted, anything positive about Israel it's restricted. And then there are things that are restricted that I can't even figure out why. This is why we launched an online petition that has over 450,000 signatures at PragerU.com. This is why we filed the lawsuit. Google and YouTube hold themselves out to be a public forum, a platform of freedom of expression and free speech online. Google defines itself as a public forum, right? Its mission is to aggregate and make the world's information useful. So it's not only that we're saying that there are the biggest vehicle of communications of today and possibly of all times, right? There are saying it as well. But then they turn around and censor ideas they don't agree with. Uh, this is why we're heading to court next week on March 15th in San Jose. Uh, and you know, we're David they're Goliath, but we're excited for this fight. I stand. I stand with PragerU. PragerU content has a large following online with some videos getting 10 to 12 million views. We want to break the stigma of what people are saying about conservatives. And the only way to do that is if we have a platform where we can get our message out. I'm standing right here in front of the courthouse right across the street. You can't see it is a beautiful building It's a public library. If a student walks into that public library, goes on the computer and searches for PragerU videos. There are over 200 that they will not be able to see. And get this, five of them are on the ten commandments. I used to work as a software engineer on the inside of Pinterest. And I know for a fact that there are people on the inside of Google and big tech who see the censorship and are afraid to speak up because they're afraid of losing their jobs. This is a blacklist one of many blacklists that is that are at Google. This particular blacklist is showing which uh news sites aren't going to show up underneath the search bar when people are searching on their Android phones. Are you need to continue to think for ourselves or are we gonna just let the biggest tech companies decide what is? This is about another point of view that is being silenced. Tomorrow it's gonna be your point of view that's being silenced. Is Google the one who gets to decide what everybody gets to watch? 
Evolution. You learned about it in high school. It goes like this: Life started out with very simple forms and then gradually, over hundreds of millions of years, morphed into all the forms we see today. Bacteria to Beethoven. Not a straight line, of coursebut that's roughly how it went. This was the theory proposed by Charles Darwin in 1859, and, with some modification, it has been embraced as unassailable by the science community over the last century. As evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins says, If you meet somebody who claims not to believe in evolution, that person is either ignorant, stupid or insane. But is that right? Are there no scientific reasons to doubt the evolutionary account of life's origins? In November 2016, I attended a conference in London convened by some of the world's leading evolutionary biologists. The purpose: to address growing doubts about the modern version of Darwin's theory. Let's look at just two scientific reasons to doubt this theory. First, the Cambrian Explosion. A weird and wonderful thing happened 530 million years ago: A whole bunch of major groups of animals - what scientists call the phyla - appeared abruptly within a geologically short window of time - about ten million years. These novel animal forms - exhibiting proto-types of most animal body designs we see today - emerged in the fossil record without evidence of earlier ancestors. Did you catch that? A huge number of diverse animals appeared, with no discernible antecedents. So where did they come from? This question really bothered Darwin. And he acknowledged that he could give it no satisfactory answer. Nor can scientists today. The renowned biologist Eugene Koonin, of the National Center for Biotechnology Information, describes the abrupt appearance of the Cambrian animals and other organisms such as dinosaurs, birds, flowering plants and mammals as a pattern of biological Big Bangs. So what caused all these new forms of life to arise? That question leads to a second big doubt: the DNA enigma. In the 1950s, James Watson and Francis Crick made a startling discovery: The DNA molecule stores information as a four-character digital code. Strings of precisely sequenced chemicals inside the DNA helix store the instructions - the information - for building the crucial proteins that cells need to survive. Unless the chemical letters in the DNA text are sequenced properly, a protein molecule will not form. No proteins; no cells. No cells; no living organisms. Bill Gates has said, DNA is like a software program. Let's think about that for a second. For computers to run faster and perform more functions, they require new code. Well, the same is true for life: To build new forms of life, the evolutionary process would need to produce new genetic information - new code. But this raises questions about the creative power of natural selection and mutation. Natural selection is a simple sorting process. Species keep favorable mutations that allow them to survive but eliminate bad mutations that cause their members to die out. No one doubts that natural selection is a real process and that it produces minor variations, but many biologists now doubt that it produces major innovations in biological form. To see why, think again about software. What happens if you introduce a few random changes into computer code? You'll likely mess it up, right? Though it might still work - if you don't make too many changes. But if you make enough random changes, your program will stop functioning altogether. You certainly can't keep doing this and expect some cool, new program to pop out. There's a mathematical reason for this. In all codes and languages, there are vastly more ways of arranging characters that will generate gibberish than there are arrangements that will generate meaningful sequences. And this applies to DNA. Remember, natural selection only selects sequences that random mutations generate. Yet experiments have established that DNA sequences capable of making stable proteins are extremely rare - and, thus, really hard to stumble on randomly. How rare? While working at Cambridge University, molecular biologist Douglas Axe showed that, for every DNA sequence that generates a relatively short functional protein, there are 10 to the 77th power nonfunctional sequences. Now consider that there are only 10 to the 65th power atoms in our galaxy. So finding a new DNA sequence capable of building a functional protein is like searching blindfolded for a single marked atom among a trillion Milky Way galaxies. Talk about a needle in a haystack! As I show in my book Darwin's Doubt, even 4 billion years of life's history is not enough time to overcome a search problem this big. So, two serious doubts about modern Darwinian theory: The Cambrian Explosion - the sudden appearance of new animals, which evolutionary theory has failed to explain; and the DNA enigma - the implausibility of random mutations producing the information needed to build new forms of animal life. Scientists who know about these problems are not ignorant, stupid, or insane; they are just appropriately skeptical. I'm Stephen Meyer, senior fellow at the Discovery Institute, for Prager University.
Climate change has changed names so many times. Not too long ago is was called Global warming.. its a hoax. iTS CALLED SEASONS. they are trying to bring more taxation on the people.NO. YOU CANT TAX THE PEOPLE FOR BREATHING. NOT NEVER The reason we're outside the home office it's because we are worried about the law and order the fragility of the systems to climate shocks Pause to understand, how'd you get here? Your car picked me up your new car. Okay. We got TV. Oh, I Think can you can you tell me that's alright Have you got tbo because a gang piece will help you talking about the room. I'm talking about answer my questions I'd like to invite you With respect answer my question. Do you have a TV at home? I don't think that's relevant your kids. Use iPads are computer Service not relevant to the planet. Do you have air conditioning? Do they have any less schools Pierce? You want your kids in school? You're not your child. You see the problem with all this you go on about my kids can't get out of begs They're also terrible more surprise a terrified because your mum's telling them every day the what plan is about to it And yeah, I bet your own carbon footprint on all the stuff. I just mentioned is terrible It's it so why don't you give up these notes about my give up your television? It's not your air conditioning walk your kids to school get a bite to miss Julia Why don't you practice what you preach and I respond to that. Yes It's really not about our individual carbon footprints didn't the systems wide issue? We face an existential threat life as we know it is on the line We have 12 short years to change everything or it's game over this is the terrifying scenario that's used by many leading politicians to justify a green new deal an unprecedented increase in government power focused on the energy industry the Core idea of a green new deal is that government should rapidly prohibit the use of fossil fuel energy and impose 100% renewable energy mostly solar and wind This may sound appealing but consider what it would entail Today 80% of the energy Americans used to heat their homes farm their land run their factories and drive their cars comes from fossil fuels coal oil and natural gas Only 3.4 percent comes from solar and wind despite decades of government subsidies and mandates to encourage their use the reason we don't use much sunlight and wind as energy is that they are Unreliable fuels that only work when the Sun shines and the wind blows That's why no town city or country has ever come close to 100% or even 50% solar and wind and Yet green New Deal proponents say they can do the impossible If only we give the government control of the energy industry and control of major users of energy such as the transportation industry manufacturing and agriculture All of this is justified by the need to do something about the existential threat of rising co2 levels We're told on a daily basis that prestigious organizations like the United Nations have predicted mass destruction and death if we don't get off fossil fuels what we're not told is that such predictions have a decade's long track record of getting it wrong and by wrong, I mean Completely missing the dartboard wrong the public Needs to be told the truth for example in 1989 The Associated Press reported a United Nations prediction that Entire nations could be wiped off the face of the earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed By the year 2000 we're now two decades past 2000 We're not missing any nations and human beings are living longer healthier and wealthier lives than ever before But aren't things bound to get worse Haven't scientists established that co2 is a greenhouse gas With a warming influence on the planet. Yes, but that's only a small part of the big picture Although co2 causes some warming it's much less significant than we've been told Since we started using significant amounts of fossil fuels in the middle of the nineteenth century. We've increased the percentage of co2 in the atmosphere from 0.03 percent to 0.04 percent which correlates with an average temperature increase of about two degrees Fahrenheit it also correlates with Significant global greening because co2 is plant food. All of this is far from Unprecedented territory for our planet which has existed with at least 10 times Today's co2 levels and a 25 degree warmer average temperature what is truly unprecedented though is how safe we are from climate the International disaster database a Nonpartisan organization that tracks deaths from climate related causes such as extreme heat floods storms and droughts Shows that such deaths have been plummeting as co2 emissions have been rising How is this possible because of the fossil fuel energy that emitted the co2? Which has empowered us to climate proof our environment with heating air conditioning sturdy buildings mass irrigation and weather warning systems Fossil fuel energy has not taken a naturally safe climate and made it. Unnaturally dangerous It's taken our naturally dangerous climate and made it unnaturally safe Fossil fuels are not an existential threat They're an existential resource because they increase something much more important than the level of co2 in the atmosphere the level of human empowerment increased life expectancy income health leisure time and education are all tightly linked to increased access to fossil fuels Does this mean that we shouldn't look for lower carbon energy alternatives? Of course not but the alternatives should lead us toward more abundant more reliable power not less The most promising form of alternative energy is not unreliable solar and wind but reliable carbon free nuclear energy Sweden gets 40% of its electricity from nuclear France over 70% while nuclear energy is smeared as unsafe it has actually been demonstrated by study after study to be the safest form of energy ever created and Yet green New Deal proponents who say that we have 12 years to save the planet from rising co2 levels vigorously oppose nuclear addition to all fossil fuel use by opposing every affordable abundant reliable form of energy The green New Deal won't protect us from an existential threat. It is an existential threat I'm Alex Epstein author of the moral case for fossil fuels for Prager University
He was one of the most revered Americans of the 19th century. His story of personal triumph - humble origins to national prominence - is equal to or greater than that of Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln, or Ulysses Grant. He never became a politician, but he spoke to presidents as an equal. His name is Frederick Douglass. Born a slave, Douglass never knew the exact date of his birth, never knew his father, never saw his mother after the age of seven. This wasn't uncommon at the time. Slave owners often made a point of separating families. Breaking family bonds increased dependence on the slave owner. Discipline was maintained through simple fear and destroying self-esteem. A slave could be punished for not working hard enough, but also for working too hard - or even for suggesting labor-saving ideas. Douglass experienced all of this and rebelled against it. As a teenager, he taught himself to read. This created a desire for freedom. When his owner discovered this disturbing development, he sent him to live with a local farmer, Edward Covey, who made extra money breaking the will of unruly slaves. Covey beat Douglass every week for six months, often for no reason. And it worked. Soon young Frederick gave up all hope of being free. The dark night of slavery closed in upon me, he later wrote. That all changed one hot August day in 1835. When Covey struck him, Douglass fought back. Where he found the courage, he couldn't say. The two men struggled until Covey stumbled away exhausted. Covey never laid a hand on Douglass again. The teenage slave had stood up for himself. He considered this the most important lesson of his life. Years later, he would tell this story when urging black men to enlist in the Union Army to fight the Confederacy. You owe it to yourself, he said. You will stand more erect . . . and be less liable to insult. . . . You [will be] defending your own liberty, honor, manhood, and self-respect. Douglass made his escape from slavery in 1838, slipping into the North disguised as a U.S. Navy sailor. At any point along the rail journey, his flimsy cover could have been blown. Displaying a confidence he didn't actually feel, he bluffed his way past suspicious conductors and runaway-slave hunters. Once in the North, he joined the radical abolitionist movement and was quickly recognized as a powerful speaker and writer. The movement's leader, William Lloyd Garrison, burned the Constitution at his July 4th speeches. In Garrison's view, it legally protected slavery and was therefore irredeemable. But Douglass came to reject that. He believed that the Constitution was fundamentally opposed to slavery. Interpreted as it ought to be interpreted, Douglass said, the Constitution is a glorious liberty document. Not surprisingly, Douglass was a strong supporter of the Republican Party - the new anti-slavery party - and of the Union cause in the Civil War. Initially, he had doubts about Abraham Lincoln. He didn't think Lincoln was truly committed to ending slavery. But he warmed up to the Great Emancipator as the conflict wore on. Lincoln, on the other hand, always admired Douglass. Here comes my friend Douglass, Lincoln said when he saw him at his second inaugural in 1865. The Union victory ended slavery. But as the Democratic Party re-established itself in the South in the 1870s and 80s, a new kind of racial oppression arose in the form of Jim Crow laws and, even worse, widespread lynching. This was a bitter pill for Douglass to swallow. But he never gave up the struggle and spent the last three decades of his life agitating for civil rights. Freedom, he was fond of saying, depended on three boxes: the ballot-box, the jury-box, and the cartridge-box. For Douglass, it was self-evident that black Americans, as citizens, were entitled to full freedom and full legal protection. At a speech in 1893, when white hecklers began booing him, Douglass set his speech aside and spoke extemporaneously. There is no Negro problem, he roared. The problem is whether the American people have honesty enough, loyalty enough, honor enough, patriotism enough, to live up to their own Constitution. He also believed that true liberty would only come for black Americans - as it comes for anyone - when they took full responsibility for their own fate. Ultimately, hard work and education would secure blacks the rights they deserved. There can be no independence without a large share of self-dependence. . . . This virtue cannot be bestowed. It must be developed from within, he declared in his most popular lecture, appropriately titled Self-Made Men. Douglass defended equality and freedom until the day he died - literally. He passed away in 1895, on his way to a political convention. He had well understood the deep prejudice that existed, but he never accepted it as an inherent part of American culture. My cause, he wrote, was and is that of the black man; not because he is black, but because he is a man. I'm Timothy Sandefur, author of Frederick Douglass: Self-Made Man, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is will wit with Prager you today. We're at Cal State LA New York City wants to find people up to $250,000 now for using the term illegal alien. We're going to talk to students and see what they think about it So in New York, they are recently trying to make it Findable if you use the word illegal alien, do you think that that's right? Yes I actually do agree with that and it's certain way because New York is very diverse And we this difference.. it's not only one race or ethnicity You're cold.. you're cold today? Mm-hmm oh man Burnin up. yes i believe so Why is that? uuummmmm Illegal alien that's a dehumanizing term in my opinion like in my Chicano Studies class You had a whole discussion about it And I think it's used to put down people to Dehumanize them to make them seem a lot less than they really are and I think it shouldn't it should actually never be used Similarly to like the n-word, you know, it's one of those nono words Some people say it's like a racist term. What do you think about that? I just personally think it's wrong if If I wouldn't want it said to me I want to want to say it to anybody else it has that like weight to it for me. So I think It goes with the same words at the n-word and stuff like that It carries a same effect to us matic people while he's in my case at least so if like if you called me a cracker Do you think you should be fined for that? Yeah, cuz I just do de-minimizing you that's like saying that's putting you down for something that you have no power over What if you call me short should you be fine for that? No No, just if it's race Yeah, cuz it's like if it's putting you down in some way I would say like if it's making you seem more inferior to another Illegal has this connotation that brings all these are criminals all these are murderers These are rapists these or whatever, but that's not the case for a lot of these people You know, it's hard working people that are seeking a better life seeking stability and this whole idea that they're coming to take things away when the US has been proud to Advertise themselves as the land of opportunity and second choices and the whole Statue of Liberty has the thing Give me your broken. Give him your poor whatever whatever it's like Okay. Why are you mad this is what you wanted This is what you presented yourself as this is your reaction that you should have expected. So it's like you know. In 2015 to 2016 L.A spent 1.3 billion dollars on welfare for illegal immigrants. Do you think that's fine? We should keep spending that kind of money or?.. On top of welfare. The child is a child The child must be fed a child must be cultivated. I think you get what you earn uumm I mean, I feel like saying illegal alien means that you're not existent. Obviously, I see it physically. It's just a term of Documentation. If you're gonna ban that you might as well start biting other words as well. I feel like that's ridiculous because Like one I feel like that that inhibits like people's freedom of speech and like finding people for saying things it's like maybe you don't agree with somebody says, but that doesn't mean that you're you can like restrict them in that way like what if somebody's like oh if you want to say Apples you have to pay the Apple company like five bucks. Like it's the same thing like the government It's like a finding people for saying things is ridiculous. It's a legal term if we are willing to sacrifice the First Amendment to protect our feelings umm then that leads us down a really slippery slope, but some people find it offensive Too bad, thank you guys so much for watching Make sure you like this video comment your thoughts down below and share with your friends. It's been will wit. Peace Thank you for watching this video. To help keep Prager-U videos free. Please consider making a tax-deductible donation.
I own a small business with seven employees. We make cookies - but not just any cookies. We make sugar-free cookies that diabetics can eat. Actually, they're so tasty, anyone can enjoy them. That was the inspiration that motivated me to start this business. You see, I am a diabetic myself. I have been one my whole life. If you think running a cookie company is fun and games, think again. I work a hundred hours a week - which isn't unusual for small business owners. I make a nice living, but I'm not in it for the money. I love what I do. I'd better. My margins are very tight - around 1%. That means I have to sell a million dollars' worth of cookies to make $10,000. Every penny counts - literally. That's why I get so frustrated with government regulations. Now, let me be clear: some regulations are necessary - especially, for obvious reasons, in the food industry. But necessary and excessive are two entirely different things. Excessive, UN-necessary regulations soak up valuable hours of my time and my money for no good purpose. That 100 hours I work per week? I estimate 36 of them are spent on compliance issues alone. This keeps me away from activities that would help me grow my business - like sales and product development. And that keeps me away from hiring more people. My employees are like family to me. It's that way with most small businesses. But it's a struggle every single day. I could be more productive and feel a lot less anxiety if I didn't have to fight my own government; or, should I say, governments - federal, state and local. I get the roads and the bridges and the national defense, but I don't get why they have to be involved in every tiny aspect of my business, sometimes competing with each other as to who can make my life more difficult. For example, as a bakery, I'm under the jurisdiction of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Department of Agriculture, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). I also have to deal with the state health agency. They all have different rules. If these rules contradict one another, it's not their problem; it's mine. A few years ago, the FDA inspector showed up for one of his random inspections. He noticed the door to the area in which we bake our cookies swung out as you walked in. He told me that was a code violation. The doors have to swing in. I had 30 days to fix it or I'd be fined thousands of dollars. I should note we have an air curtain between both rooms so no food particles can get in or out of the baking area. I pointed this out. The inspector was unmoved. A few months later, the inspector from the Ag Department shows up for one of his random inspections. He notices that the door swings in. Yes, I tell him. It does. It's an FDA regulation. No, he tells me, it has to swing out. Fix it within 30 days, he says, or you'll be fined. I started keeping two sets of doors: one that swings in for the FDA, and one that swings out for the Ag Department. Here's another example: The FDA requires bakeries to send a sample of every product batch to a 3rd-party lab for testing. We make 36 batches a day. That means we have to send 36 bags of cookies every day to that lab. This costs me tens of thousands of dollars every year. And remember, in order to make 10,000 dollars, I have to sell a million dollars in cookies. We've never had a bad test. Hardly surprising. Making cookies isn't that complex. The ingredients are well-known and safe. I'm all for testing, but how about one bag out of every ten batches? That alone might double my profit margin to 2%! One more example: The government demands that the type on my packaging be a certain size. Fine. I hired a company that does this sort of work to do the printing. The inspector gets out his magnifying glass and decides the font is off by 1/100t of an inch. All the packaging has to be trashed and a whole new set ordered. That cost me $15,000. Or 1.5 million dollars in cookies to make that money back. Another time, we didn't include the word coconut in the allergy section of the package. We didn't think it was necessary, as these were coconut cookies. All that packaging had to be redone, too. That cost me $68,000. Or 6.8 million dollars' worth of cookies to make that money back. I could go on. So could anyone who owns a small business, but you get the idea. Small businesses are responsible for 60 million jobs. We could be responsible for a lot more - if the politicians who pass these laws and the bureaucrats who enforce them would back off. Common sense regulation - I'm all for it. Excessive, unnecessary, wasteful regulation? I need to get back to work. I'm Joseph Semprevivo, president of Joseph's Lite Cookies, for Prager University.
My great-great-grandfather, Silas Burgess, came to America shackled in the belly of a slave ship. He was sold on an auction block in Charleston, South Carolina, to the Burgess Plantation. Orphaned by age 8, he was, fortunately, surrounded by elder slaves who, though physically chained, mentally envisioned themselves as free men. They escaped, taking young Silas with them, making their way to West Texas. Silas worked hard and saved his money. Eventually, he became the owner of 102 acres of farmland, which he cultivated and paid off within two years. I proudly carry the name of my first American ancestor - who, like millions of others drawn or brought to our country, struggled past overwhelming obstacles to live the American Dream. Silas founded the first black church, the first black elementary school in his town. He was a Republican, a Christian, and a pillar of his community. He was proud and industrious and taught his children to be the same. Now, because great-great-grandpa Silas was once a slave, so-called progressives want to give me money. Never mind that, like him, I am an entrepreneur who received an excellent education, built businesses, raised a remarkable family and, unlike most white Americans, earned a Super Bowl ring. Because of work I've never done, stripes I've never had, under a whip I've never known, these progressives want to give me money I've never earned. The fact that this money will be forcibly taken from others who also dreamed, worked and sacrificed for it, I'm told is not my concern. But it is. At the core of the reparations movement is a distorted and demeaning view of blacks and whites. It grants superiority to the white race, treating them as an oppressive people too powerful for black Americans to overcome. It brands blacks as hapless victims, devoid of the ability which every other culture possesses to assimilate and to progress. The reparations movement conveniently forgets the 150 years of legal, social, and economic progress obtained by millions of American minorities. It also minimizes the sacrifice of hundreds of thousands of white Americans and a Republican president who gave their lives to eradicate slavery. I think Grandpa Silas would have seen this loss of American lives as payment in full. Every grateful black American, then and now, would feel the same. The reparations movement also reinforces a view of racial relationships that undermines America's Judeo-Christian foundation. It defies the ideals of forgiveness and second chances and scorns individual accountability. Proponents of reparations believe that black Americans are incapable of carrying their own burdens, while white Americans must bear the sins of those who came before them. Proponents do not take into account the majority of white Americans who never owned slaves, who fought to end slavery, or who came to America long after it was ended. This divisive message marks the black race as forever broken, a people whose healing can only come through the guilt, pity, and benevolence of whites. Tragically, we now see this playing out on our college campuses. As young white Americans acknowledge their skin color as a privilege, young black Americans - with no apparent shame - accept their skin color as one that automatically confers victim status. In doing so, they seem unaware that this perception of blacks was shared by the 1960s Southern white supremacists of my youth. Those who seek reparations have accepted the theory that skin color alone is capable of making one race superior to the other - that with no additional effort, values, or personal initiative, white Americans will succeed, while black Americans will fail. At its very core, this represents the condescending evil of racism. It certainly does not represent black America's potential. 40% of black households today live the middle-class American Dream. There are thousands of black Americans among our nation's top 1% of income earners - doctors, lawyers, engineers and professors; not to mention music, TV, film and sports stars. Many of our society's most revered and celebrated citizens are black. The journeys of these Americans to wealth and prominence vary, like those of their white counterparts, but many benefited from having ancestors like Grandpa Silas, who embraced the opportunities their country provided and who left behind a legacy of proud, productive, patriotic, and successful families. Why should white Americans - my neighbors, friends, and fellow citizens - owe me anything? If Grandpa Silas were here, I'm certain his message to everyone, whether black or white, would simply be this: Good character cannot be bought by bribery. I'm Burgess Owens for Prager University.
What does it say that fox news is nicer to me than the lefties are What does it say that the Conservatives are nicer to me? It's a bezier world mam. It's such a bizarre world. You know, I'm such a lefty I mean, I'm a serious lefty but there's so I understand why people on the right call them godless them I mean, it's like I didn't think the left was as mean as the right they are Tolerance it's a word we hear a lot these days. So let's define it Tolerance is the ability to live with people whose opinions and behavior You don't agree with that's essentially how Oxford defines it how merriam-webster defines it and how we as a society Have always defined it you might be for the death penalty and your cousin might be against it You might be against a $15 minimum wage and your coworker might be for it Your dad might have voted for Trump. Your mom might have voted for Clinton and your brother may not have voted at all Whatever differences we have tolerating others opinions is a prerequisite to a functioning and free society America itself was built on a foundation of tolerance the Declaration of Independence guarantees us life liberty and the pursuit of happiness But there is an implicit contract there to have your life your liberty and your pursuit of happiness You have to be tolerant of somebody else's life their liberty and their pursuit of happiness This contract though seems to be breaking down If you listen to the mainstream media only one side is living up to this deal the left The right according to the media is intolerant of everyone except those darned white heterosexual Christian males, there's only one problem. It's just not true incredibly the left isn't even tolerant of the very people they say they're tolerant of if You're gay or black or an immigrant and you're not in lockstep with current leftist orthodoxy You know exactly what I'm talking about If you believe we should judge people on the content of their character and not the color of their skin The left cause racist it you believe that America is a nation of immigrants But that our country should also protect its borders The left calls you a xenophobe if you believe that men and women are equal but fundamentally different the left calls you sexist here's the thing those who only tolerate people they agree with or like Aren't actually tolerant. So who is tolerant? Is it the organizers of the women's March who had to apologize for the hurt and confusion they caused when they invited a man lefties' icon Bernie Sanders to speak at their convention? Is it the antifa thugs who caused UC Berkeley to spend six hundred thousand dollars on security when mainstream Conservative Ben Shapiro showed up to give a talk or is a democratic congresswoman Maxine Waters Who scolded Kanye West for talking out of turn? When he dared suggest that blacks should think for themselves? These aren't isolated examples, I'm guessing that you person watching this right now have silenced yourself because you don't want to suffer the wrath of the outraged mob So let me ask the question again who is Tolerant. Well, here's the surprise. It's actually those scary Right-wingers that the media and the universities demonize every day. I speak from personal Experience maybe I'm a glutton for punishment here but I still consider myself a liberal and it's my duty as a Liberal to say what I think I would rather stand for what I believe and be hated then bow down and be loved The left sadly has become utterly intolerant of anyone with whom they disagree Why? Because they believe that they know how you should live and how you should think any deviation any nonconformity is dangerous to that goal Believe it or not the right these days actually welcomes diversity of thought I can tell you that in the last few years of my political evolution I've consistently found conservatives to be tolerant and open-minded Don't take my word for it though. Test it out for yourself Go talk to some they do exist and they do things like watch movies travel any eat, ethnic food You know regular people things You know what I found out the right much more than the left believes in the notion of live and let live and That ladies and gentlemen is the true definition of tolerance. I'm Dave Rubin of the Reuben report for Prager University
Here's a riddle: How is it that ever since the government began telling us what to eat, we have gotten fatter and sicker? In 1977, when the government first set dietary guidelines, the average American male weighed 170 pounds. He now weighs 197. It's not any better for women - 145 to 170. And you don't need an academic study to know the same thing is happening to kids. Just look around. The weight gain has real-life consequences: the percentage of Americans diagnosed with type 2 diabetes - a condition that can lead to severe medical issues - has risen from 2% in 1977 to over 9% in 2015. In hard numbers, that's five million people to over 30 million people. How did this happen? It all started innocently enough in the 1950s, when President Dwight Eisenhower had a heart attack while in office. Suddenly, the issue of heart health became a national obsession. Keep in mind this was an era when scientists had harnessed the power of the atom, unlocked the secrets of DNA, and cured once incurable diseases like polio. Surely, there had to be a scientific solution to heart disease. There was. And a charismatic medical researcher from the University of Minnesota named Ancel Keyes had it. Cholesterol, Keyes claimed, was the villain of the heart disease story. His now famous seven countries study determined conclusively - in his mind, at least - that people who consumed high amounts of fat - specifically, saturated fat - had higher cholesterol levels and thus, higher rates of heart attacks. Lower your fat intake, and you would lower heart disease risk. The ever-confident Keyes spread the gospel. As an influential member of the American Heart Association, he was in a very strong position to do so. There was only one problem: Keyes's study was bad science. The sample size was so small, the data collection integrity so shoddy, and the life-style variables between the countries he studied so great, that his research had no scientific validity. In other words, he asserted a conclusion he couldn't prove. When other scientists questioned Keyes's conclusions, they were invariably met with stern responses like: people are dying while you're quibbling over data points. And, there are great benefits and no risks to adopting this new way of eating. In 1973, the American Heart Association set the dietary limit on saturated fat at 10%, and in 1977, the US government followed suit. Where did the 10% value come from? It didn't come from any scientific data. It was merely a government committee's best guess. This was despite contrary evidence like the 1957 Western Electric Company employee study showing no difference in heart attacks in those who ate more or less saturated fat. A longer-term study of the same Western Electric subjects in 1981 reached the same conclusion. But again, no one wanted to hear it. To make this all easier to understand and to spread the message to schools, the food pyramid was created. That's the chart you first saw in third or fourth grade with all the supposedly good foods at the bottom - meaning, eat a lot of those, and the bad foods at the top - "eat those ones sparingly. What our kids are fed in school, what our military troops are fed on bases, what sick people are fed in hospitals; what crops we plant and how we raise our cattle, are all predicated on this deceptive nutritional concept. As Americans ate less saturated fat - margarine instead of butter, processed oils like corn oil instead of olive oil, low fat milk, low fat yogurt and so on - they also started to eat more heart healthy grains - exactly what the food pyramid, and the updated version called MyPlate, advise you to do. As the consumption of saturated fat decreased by almost 40%, the consumption of refined grains - carbohydrates that convert to sugar in the body - increased substantially. Total intake of calories also began to increase. This happened, in no small part, because food companies took advantage of the low-fat craze. They lowered fat and increased sugar. Suddenly, supermarkets were full of supposedly healthy low fat, high sugar foods. It remains that way today. Foods that are high in sugar stimulate reward centers in the brain and leave us wanting more. Thus, the famous line about potato chips: Betcha can't eat just one! The end result is a fatter population with greater and greater health issues - like type 2 diabetes, a problem that's getting worse, not better. How do we get ourselves out of this spiral? There are many answers: for some, it's a low-carb, high fat diet; for others, it's a Mediterranean diet; for some, it's vegetarianism; for others, it might be something else. You need to find the best solution for you. And that's really the point: we need to take responsibility for our own health. If the food pyramid has taught us one thing, it's this: Don't rely on the government to take care of you. I'm Dr. Bret Scher, cardiologist, for Prager University.
Do you remember America? If you read about it in a history textbook, you probably learned about a land of oppression, racism, sexism, income inequality, police brutality, and imperial wars. (Aside from that, it was a great place.) That is how America is portrayed in most American high schools and colleges - and in America's media, films, and by its progressive politicians. In the words of filmmaker Michael Moore, America is a nation founded on genocide, built on the backs of slaves, and maintained through the subjugation of women to second-class citizenship and economic disempowerment. Is that America's history? Is that who Americans were - and are? George Orwell understood that the most effective way to destroy a people is to deny and obliterate their own understanding of their history. History is much more than a collection of facts. History, and our understanding of it, tells us who we are as a people in the same way your personal memories and experiences define and shape who you are. Wipe out your memory, and you wipe out your identity. When you raise a generation of Americans to hold their country's past in contempt by exaggerating America's faults and ignoring its triumphs, then they will have no respect for American institutions or the beliefs on which the nation is based. It hasn't always been this way. Until the last few decades, liberals and conservatives alike shared a common understanding of America's origins, its history, and its mission of spreading liberty - within America and around the world. They recognized America as the country of the Pilgrims and Jamestown, of the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence, of the individual rights won through revolution and secured in the U.S. Constitution. This was the country of the frontier spirit and of almost unlimited possibilities; the country that paid for the sin of slavery with the carnage of its Civil War; of economic dynamism and endless invention; of unparalleled individual opportunity; and the country that defeated fascism and communism in the 20th century. Previous generations took all this for granted and reveled in it. So what changed? Starting in the 1960s, a new, so-called progressive, narrative took hold that sought not to uplift, inspire, and unite, but to demean, degrade and divide. It sought to replace the pride of American achievement with shame. Ironically, this all happened while America was making extraordinary strides in civil rights - especially for minorities and women. But anything less than perfection - which can never exist, given that every society is composed of flawed human beings - is now considered a total failure; and victims of the past are elevated as an indictment of the present. Along the way, all the classic American touchstones have been undermined. According to the progressive narrative, Christopher Columbus discovered America only to despoil it; the Founders wrote the Constitution only to codify their ownership of slaves; the great captains of industry enriched themselves only by exploiting the poor. American traditions that were perfectly acceptable even a few years ago - pledging allegiance to the flag, singing the national anthem, even saying Merry Christmas - have been called into question, mocked, and sometimes banned. The outcome of this new, non-violent civil war between those who hold America and its history in contempt and those who, without denying its flaws, revere America, will determine the future of the American experiment - the new history we will make. Is America a country that was built by slavery? Or a country that overcame and abolished slavery at the cost of 600,000 lives? Is America a country of rampant discrimination? Or an accepting people in active pursuit of a more perfect union? Is it a country of grinding exploitation? Or a land of limitless opportunity? The time has come to choose. How will you remember America? I'm James Robbins, columnist for USAToday and author of Erasing America, for Prager University.
The American Civil War ended in 1865. And a new conflict immediately began. The North won the first war. The South won the second. To truly understand American history, one needs to understand how this happened, and why. The years immediately following the end of the Civil War - 1865 to 1877 - are known in American history as Reconstruction. What should have been a glorious chapter in America's story - the full integration of 3.9 million freed slaves - instead became a shameful one. It began with the assassination of Republican president Abraham Lincoln. One week after the Civil War effectively ended, the one man with the political savvy and shrewdness to have guided Reconstruction was gone. His successor was Vice-President Andrew Johnson, a Tennessee Democrat. Johnson was the rare Southern politician who stayed loyal to the Union during the Civil War. Lincoln added him to his reelection ticket in 1864 as a gesture of wartime bi-partisanship. But Johnson was wholly unprepared for the task. Under his Reconstruction plan, the defeated rebels would be allowed to return to power, almost as if they had never left. The only requirement to rejoin the Union was that they agree to ratify the 13th Amendment that abolished slavery. This was fine with the old Southern Democratic ruling class. By agreeing to abolish slavery, they would actually increase their political power. Whereas the Constitution's old 3/5ths clause limited slave states to counting only 3/5ths of their slaves for the purpose of determining representation in Congress, after the Civil War, the Southern states were able to count 100% of the freed slaves. This would ensure the return to Congress of Southern Democrats, and in even greater numbers than before the rebellion, allowing them - with the help of their Democratic Party allies in the North - to fight Republican efforts to secure the citizenship rights of the former slaves. Johnson's plan set off three years of bitter political warfare. The Republicans in Congress created their own Congressional Reconstruction plan. Still in the overall majority there, they reorganized ten of the Southern states into military occupation zones, requiring them to write new state constitutions that recognized black civil rights before they could be readmitted to the Union. Over fierce Democratic opposition, the Republicans also managed to pass two new amendments to the Constitution - the 14th and 15th Amendments - guaranteeing due process in law and voting rights in elections. Those rights enabled the former slaves to help elect new state governments, to hold office, and even to send the first black representatives and senators to Congress - all Republicans. Most important, in 1869, with the help of 500,000 votes from newly-enfranchised blacks, a new Republican president, Ulysses S. Grant, took office. Grant was solidly behind the Congressional Reconstruction plan. But a new problem arose: Disgruntled Southern whites organized themselves into ad hoc militias to terrorize Southern blacks and their white Republican supporters into silence. The largest and most famous of these militias went by a still-familiar name: the Ku Klux Klan. President Grant fought the Klan and other like-minded terror groups. But the fight required an extended military intervention to keep the peace, and that cost time and money. Grant also had to deal with Northern Democrats, who were sympathetic to Southern racism. With each new election - 1868, 1870 and 1872 - they gained more congressional seats and more power. And then, in 1873, a major financial depression began. Economically desperate, anxious to put the remnants of the Civil War behind them, voters gave control of the House of Representatives back to the Democrats in the 1874 midterm elections. Grant left office in 1877. Soon after, the last Republican state governments in the South were overthrown. Black voters were disenfranchised, Jim Crow racial segregation became the order, and the South returned to social and economic backwardness. What could we have done better? First, we should have imposed a real occupation on the defeated Confederacy, until a new political generation grew up in the South which learned a newer lesson about race and rights than white supremacy. Second, we should have gotten landownership into the hands of the freed slaves and brought the South into the same world of free markets, economic mobility, small-scale manufacturing and industry that Lincoln's Republicans advocated. But the truth is that the North had won the war. But the South had won the peace. That's the real story of Reconstruction. I'm Allen Guelzo, professor of American history at Gettysburg College, for Prager University.
They are turning social media against us. Using it to influence our elections. Spreading propaganda. Disguising it as news. Pretty scary stuff. I'm not talking about Russia. That's amateur hour. The media organization I'm talking about operates right here, in the USA. Out in the open. Legally. It has a large staff of on-air personalities, reporters, cameramen and editors. It operates out of state-of-the art studios in Washington DC, London, Rio, and half a dozen other major cities. It produces videos, news reports, and documentaries. It has tens of millions of social media followers. Their content is viewed and shared by countless young people across the western world. In short, they're targeting us. CNN, right? Wrong. Fox News? Wrong again. The answer is AJ+. If you've spent time on social media, you've seen their stuff, I promise you. This is isn't the work of a scrappy start-up in Silicon Valley. AJ+ is bankrolled by the government of Qatar. Never heard of Qatar? Most people haven't. It's a tiny Persian Gulf state with lots of oil money; billions of dollars they're not afraid to spend on causes they believe in - causes like the terror group Hamas, which runs the Gaza Strip. Without billions from Qatar and its ally, Iran, Hamas would blow away in the next desert sandstorm. But Hamas is only part of Qatar's terror portfolio. The Qatar government bankrolls the Muslim Brotherhood, Al-Qaeda in Yemen and Syria, radical extremists in Libya, and Hezbollah in Lebanon - in other words, a rogues gallery of murderous Islamist terror groups. Qatar's propaganda arm is the Arab news service Al Jazeera - which it owns lock, stock and America-hating, Israel-hating, barrels. Al Jazeera made a splashy attempt to break into the US media market in 2013. They bought a cable franchise for $400 million dollars from former Vice President Al Gore. They signed up some major American TV journalists and opened up shop in New York and Washington. But the effort failed. Americans just couldn't cozy up to the idea that a news network that they had rightly associated with Osama bin Laden could be trusted. But Al Jazeera didn't disappear. They just re-branded into the much nicer sounding AJPlus and they concentrated their efforts on the internet and a market that didn't have a bin Laden fixation - or much connection to 9/11 at all: young people. And they've been amazingly successful. Their productions are well-produced, slick and left. In fact, they are so left that they make videos railing against leftist white women for being insufficiently sympathetic to leftist women of color, especially women of color who are gay or transgendered. It's hard to ignore the irony that a media operation fully funded by a country that oppresses women and gays makes this kind of content for an American audience. But the irony goes deeper. The young and hip presenters at AJ+ depict America as racist through and through - past and present. Black Lives Matter has no greater media ally than AJ+. Nor do avowed socialists like Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. AJ+ jumped on her bandwagon early on, making a video in the summer of 2018 about then-candidate Ocasio-Cortez entitled Socialist Rising. Why, you might ask, would the government of a Middle Eastern country care about influencing young Americans? The answer is this: anything that weakens the US is a victory for them and their radical form of Islam. If they can convince young Americans that the US is a bad place, young Americans are less likely to defend it, and less likely to support its efforts to fight Islamic terror. And if America is bad, then anyone it supports must also be bad. America supports Israel. Qatar, like its allies in the Iranian theocracy, wants Israel destroyed. So AJ+ turns out video after video, news report after news report, portraying the democratic, free, liberal Israel as a repressive apartheid state despite the fact that Muslims living in Israel have more rights - such as freedom of expression and the equality of women and gays - than Muslims living In Qatar. In AJ+'s world, Israel attacks their peaceful neighbors in Gaza for no good reason. No need to mention the rocket attacks randomly directed at Israeli civilians. Weaken America. Weaken Israel. To Qatar, a few billion dollars for a few decades is a cheap price to pay if it can achieve those goals. But you don't have to play into their game. The next time you see an AJ+ video or so-called news report, consider the source. Or better still, swipe left. I'm Raheem Kassam for Prager University.
Hey - I've got a great investment idea for you: You give me $100,000 and four years of your life, and I give you... hmm pretty much nothing. No, I'm not the devil. I'm Mr. College. And I'm here to help you finance this wonderful opportunity. I have a whole package of government loans and impressive-sounding scholarships to make it all possible. Of course, you'll have to pay interest on the loans, which will double the cost over timebut that's a problem for future you and need not concern us now. Do we have a deal? Of course, we do! You want to succeed in life, don't you? How can you do that without a college degree? But that doesn't mean you can't have a good time. Are you a movie fan? We've got a degree for that. How about criminal justice? Be like one of the cool people on the TV detective shows. And, we offer a whole selection of minority and gender studies programs. Learn why you're a victim and deserve to be angry all the time. What are you waiting for? Sign on the dotted line. Classes begin in the fall. Don't miss orientation - especially if you're male. You don't want to be parading your toxic masculinity around the campus. Definitely not cool Sound crazy? I don't know why it should. Millions of college students make that deal every year, usually with their parents' encouragement and financial support. Now, don't get me wrong - I have nothing against going to college. I sincerely believe it can be a worthwhile pursuit under the right circumstances. If you want to be a doctor or an architect, for example, it's obviously a necessity. But look through the typical college syllabus and it's clear that most of the majors, not to mention classes, are a waste of time - and money. So why do responsible adults, who only want the best for their children and are usually cautious with their hard-earned money, squander it on such a bad investment? Worse, why would they send their son or daughter to a school to learn to reject the values they - the parents - hold dear? On what planet does that make sense? It doesn't. It's an old paradigm, and we need to break it. Before it breaks us. How do we do that? Here are two solutions that would go a long way to solving the problem. One: Ask yourself if you really need to go to college. Most of us go to college because it's simply expected that we do so. Our parents expect it. Our friends expect it. Plus, it sounds like fun - a rite of passage; an escape from Mom and Dad and all their rules. But none of that actually has anything to do with getting an education or earning a living after you leave college. Maybe you're not the academic type. What's wrong with that? Nothing. According to a Georgetown University study, there are 30 million jobs paying over $55,000 a year that don't require a college degree. Learn a skill like welding or plumbing or a dozen other trades and you'll never be looking for a job. The jobs will be looking for you. We're talking $50 an hour or more. Six figure income after five years and no debt. Consider the military. You learn essential skills and, again, no debt. Or go into sales. You don't need a sociology degree for that. If you are going to college, then have a goal and a plan to achieve it. Your college journey will cost you and/or your parents a boatload of money. What are you going to get in return? Choose your courses with a practical mindset. Stay away from the silly stuff. And if you don't really know why you're going to college, consider answer Two: Delay college for a year or longer. If more graduating high school seniors would do this - not jump into college immediately after high school, college curriculums would improve and nonsense like safe spaces would disappear. Why? Because students who had spent a year or longer in the real world wouldn't put up with it. Get a job - any job - for a year before starting college. What's the big rush, anyway? One year isn't going to make a difference as to whether or not you succeed in life, but waiting tables or stacking boxes or whatever you do for a year will almost certainly change your attitude about a lot of things - like how hard it is to earn a dollar and how easy it is for the government to take that dollar away. You will also develop a new appreciation for the privilege of going to college. And you'll be much more likely to be immune to the BS. Don't be a passive investor as a student or a parent. Your education is too expensive and too important to be left to Mr. College. He might have your money. Don't give him your mind. I'm Charlie Kirk, founder and president of Turning Point USA, for Prager University.
...a good rule of thumb is if you are not a person of color and millions of people of color across this country is saying a thing or a person is racist It's really not your place to say that it isn't. You've heard about the Black Card, right? No, not the one from Visa or American Express This one is much more valuable There are entire organizations that have been built upon it and individuals that have used it to acquire both wealth and influence If this sounds like something you might wish to own you should know that there is only one way you can get your hands on it: You have to be born with black skin That's the only requirement. Really? You can be poor, middle class, rich - it doesn't matter. The Black Card will still confer upon you an entire history of oppression, even if you've never been oppressed. Flash the Black Card of most white people will cower. Play the Black Card expertly and you can win awards, make millions, all the while claiming that the people who got you there somehow hate you With a Black Card you can sell books full of indecipherable prose because of the card that powerful, who cares if your words make any sense? You can call yourself a civil rights leader and shake down multinational corporations or you can torch your own neighborhood because you didn't like the outcome of a grand jury verdict. Ironically, the people you might think have the most legitimate claim to the Black Card, refused to use it. Take my grandfather, for instance. He raised me from the time I was nine years old. Born in 1941 in rural, North Carolina, he started working at age five laying out tobacco to dry on a sharecropping farm. Jim Crow, separate drinking fountains and the KKK were ever present realities. He was 17 when he married my grandmother. He made a living cleaning homes and office buildings until he saved up enough money to open his own cleaning business. The thing is he never played any card. Nor did my grandmother. if they had problems, they didn't blame anybody. They just fixed them. And they raised me to do the same. Chores were a requirement in their household. So was reading the Bible every morning before school. I didn't like the Bible readings and I hated the chores. But I realize now that these small acts of discipline although sometimes stifling had a strong, positive impact on my character. I was a first generation college student. This was supposed to be the ticket to prosperity, but it wasn't. I left college with a mountain of debt and no practical skills. I had just 80 dollars in my bank account and very few prospects. I could have given up. I could have dug deep into my history and declared myself a natural product of ancestral oppression. I could have played the Black Card and absolved myself of all responsibility for my own stupid decisions. Except I didn't. Because it would have destroyed my grandfather's legacy. I am proud that he had the fortitude to turn nothing into something and I have no intention of reversing that something back into a nothing. My attitude comes with a price, however. Because if you are born black and you don't accept your natural status as a victim, then the validity of your blackness is immediately called into question. Well, so be it. If believing in myself, if accepting the responsibility for my failures somehow disqualifies me from owning an imaginary card, then let me be the first to declare that I don't want one. I also don't want Cornel West, Al Sharpton or insert anyone else who uses their skin color to game the system as a role model. I already have my grandfather. If there is one thing that my family history has taught me, is that I do not need a Black Card - or an imaginary anything - to make something of myself. For the record, my grandfather now retired, lives in a home that he and my grandmother built on a plot of land they purchased in North Carolina. The very same sharecropping farm that he worked on as a small child. His story is unique, his story is beautiful because it's American. And that's the only card I've ever been interested in playing. I'm Candace Owens for Prager University
The most important lawsuit in America right now and perhaps the free world is Prager University vs. YouTube. You might consider this a grandiose statement, especially since I'm the lead attorney for PragerU. I assure you, it's not. That's because this case is about the most fundamental freedom Americans have: freedom of speech as enunciated in the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. All our freedoms the very concept of freedom springs from this right. Lose it and we're no longer free not as individuals and not as a nation. I'm not willing to accept that. PragerU doesn't accept that. And you shouldn't either. Okay, so how did we get into this situation? A little background. PragerU is what is called a 501(c)(3) - a non-profit educational media company. It's known primarily for its five-minute videos. In 2016, viewers began to notice that certain PragerU videos were no longer available. YouTube had placed them on its Restricted List, which prevents the videos from playing on computers using content filters to screen out violence and pornography. PragerU assumed this was simply a case of bad algorithms. But YouTube said no, each restricted video had been reviewed by a walking/talking human. The list included such diverse titles as, Are the Police Racist? by Heather Mac Donald, Israel's Legal Founding by Alan Dershowitz, and even a video on the Ten Commandments by Dennis Prager. YouTube deemed each one unsuitable for young people - treating these videos the same as they do, say, ones containing pornography or excessive violence. Keep in mind, this is PragerU we're talking about - as Main Street as you can get. And that, ultimately, turns out to be the issue. PragerU's center-right content many of their videos, by the way, have no political theme at all offends YouTube's sensibilities. In other words, the videos aren't being restricted to protect young people from inappropriate content; they're being restricted to protect young people from ideas YouTube disagrees with. We didn't want to sue; we tried to reach an accommodation. But when YouTube wouldn't take the offending videos off their restricted list - there are now 100 on that list - we had no other option. YouTube was infringing on our right to free speech. We filed in federal court in late 2017, and thereafter in California state court. Wait a second, you might say. YouTube, which is owned by Google, is a private company. Can't they do anything they want? The answer is: yes and no. Yes, if they are a publisher. No, if they are public forum. So what's the difference? This gets right to the nub of the matter. A publisher chooses the content that resides on its site. The New York Times is a perfect example. You can't write a story and just expect the New York Times to publish it. The Times chooses what appears on its pages or website. And if they publish a story that contains a malicious lie, or violate copyright law, they can be sued. PragerU is also a publisher. It decides what material gets placed on its website. Most sites are publishers. In contrast, a public forum - which can be a physical location, like the classic town square or a shopping mall; or a virtual location, like a website - is a place that must allow individuals and organizations to exercise their free speech rights. YouTube is an example of a public forum. In fact, YouTube describes itself as a public forum. You make a video. YouTube hosts it. And anyone with an Internet connection can watch it. Facebook is also a public forum. And so is Twitter. Here's why this is so important: A public forum under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act - a law co-sponsored by Democrats and Republicans and passed by Congress in 1996 - is not subject to liability for content placed on its site. If someone posts a video about how to build a bomb or writes a threatening comment, the public forum website cannot be held legally responsible for that content. That's a good thing. It gives YouTube and other public forums the chance to host a wide variety of material, from nature videos to political diatribes, without fear of being sued. And it worked. And then it didn't. A few years ago, the social media giants Google, Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter started to behave not like public forums, but like publishers. They stopped following Section 230, which specifically requires that these websites promote a true diversity of political discourse, and began to judge content by their own political and social criteria. In other words, the social media giants want it both ways. They want the protections of a public forum and the editorial control of a publisher. We're fine if they're a publisher. And we're fine if they're a public forum. They just can't be both. If we win our legal action, YouTube will have to return to the way things were when they started. That's freedom. But if we lose, YouTube gets to act as a publisher while pretending to be a public forum. That would mean much less freedom. And then eventually, no freedom. Because the most powerful Internet sites on earth will determine what you see - and what you don't. I'm Eric George, Managing Partner, Brown George Ross, for Prager University.
It is impossible to imagine American culture without jazz, without the Blues, without hip-hop. It's impossible to imagine American cinema without regrettably birth of a nation It's impossible to imagine American literature at this point without James Baldwin, without Tony Morris And all of these, other than the primary, the secondary, and territory. fruits of slavery and so if you strip slavery out of America If you strip black people out of America you really don't have in America Is racism still a major problem in America? President Barack Obama certainly thinks so he said that racism is in our DNA Really if racism is in our DNA doesn't that mean it's immutable? Unchangeable, but America has changed and dramatically So in 1960 60 % of Americans said they would never vote for a black president Almost 50 years later. The black man who said racism is in America's DNA was elected president and four years later Reelected that's only the most obvious example of racial progress. There are many others Take interracial marriage as William H fry of the Brookings Institution wrote sociologists have traditionally viewed multiracial marriage as the benchmark for the ultimate stage of assimilation of a particular group into society black/white marriages were still illegal in 16 states until 1967 And in 1958 Gallup poll found that only 4% of Americans Approved of black/white marriages. Today, that number is 87 percent. In 1960, all marriages by blacks only 1.7 percent with black white Today, it's 12 percent and rising Now what about racial profiling and abuse of blacks by police? Doesn't that prove that racism remains a major problem in the summer of 2014? Ferguson Missouri became ground zero for this accusation when a white policeman shot and killed an unarmed black teenager While a Department of Justice investigation of the incident cleared the officer of any wrongdoing It did accuse the city's police department of racial bias But what was the Justice Department's reports most headline-grabbing stat the gap between the percentage of blacks living in Ferguson 67% and the percentage of those stopped by police for traffic violations who are black Eighty-five percent an 18-point discrepancy racism right not so fast Black's comprise 25% of New York City But for 55% of those stopped for traffic offenses a 30 point discrepancy far bigger than that of Ferguson Why isn't the NYPD a department that is now majority minority considered even more? institutionally racist than the Ferguson PD The answer is you cannot have an honest discussion about police conduct without an honest discussion of black crime Though blacks are 13% of the population they commit 50% of the nation's homicides and Almost always the victim is another black person Just as most white homicides are against other whites in 2012 according to the Center for Disease Control police killed 123 blacks while by the way killing over twice that many whites But that same year blacks killed over 6,000 people again mostly other blacks What about traffic stops? Unlike when responding to dispatch calls police officers exercised more discretion when it comes to traffic stops There are four racist cops can have a field day when it comes to traffic stops, right? Actually. No the National Institute of justice is the research agency of the Department of Justice in 2013 the National Institute of Justice published a study called race trust and police legitimacy Three out of four black drivers admitted that they were stopped by the police for a legitimate reason Blacks compared to whites were on average more likely to commit speeding and other traffic offenses The Institute wrote seatbelt usage is chronically lower among black drivers if a law enforcement agency aggressively enforces seatbelt violations police will stop more black drivers The NIJ is conclusion. These numerical disparities result from differences in Offending in other words and not because of racism similarly the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration also found that blacks violate traffic laws at Higher rates than whites in every offense whether it's driving without a license not wearing a seatbelt not using a child safety seat or speeding if I injure you The injury persists even after I actually commit the AK If I stab you You may suffer complications of long after that initial actual stabbing if I shoot you you may suffer complications long after that initial Shooting that's the case with African Americans. They're people well within the living memory of this country They're still suffering from the after-effects that is there. Still racism in America, of course there is but Racism is not in America's DNA recent history and a lot of research and data prove it as liberal Harvard sociologist Orlando Patterson said America is now the least racist white majority Society in the world Has a better record of legal protections of minorities than any other Society white or black Offers more opportunities to a greater number of black persons than any other society including all of those of Africa Patterson by the way is black. I'm Larry elder for Prager University
-- Partnerships with Planned Parenthood, 'queering' the Bible, and segregation on campus? We're counting down some of the most insane efforts of indoctrination on college campuses as we search for sanity that could save the next generation of Americans. Five: North Dakota State University paid over 165 thousand dollars to Planned Parenthood during the year 2018 in order to host "safe spaces" sex education workshops in K-through-12 schools. ...yes, you heard that right: A public university teamed up with the nation's largest abortion chain to teach little children about sex starting in kindergarten. Four: Virginia Tech University is actually offering segregated graduation ceremonies. That means that they want black students, native American students, and LGBT students to graduate separately from straight, white students. Haven't we seen this before? This sounds pretty REgressive, not PROgressive. Three: If you're an incoming freshman at the University of Texas at Austin: BEWARE. A student group called the 'Autonomous Student Network' has threatened to 'dox' students who consider joining Turning Point USA or the Young Conservatives of Texas during summer oriantation. For those who don't know, 'doxxing' involves the public posting of someone's personal information, like their phone number, email, or address online. Two: Students at George Washington University voted to get rid of the 'Colonials' mascot because the word 'colonial' is supposedly received as extremely offensive. Apparently, the word 'colonial' glorifies systemic oppression. Don't ask students what that means because they really don't know, but it sounds pretty bad. One: Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania is offering courses titled 'Queering God' and 'Queering the Bible'. I didn't even realize 'queer' was a verb! The classes explore the gender identity of God and provide a feminist and queer perspective of the Bible. Thankfully, there are colleges still committed to true education and exposing young adults to all ideas, even those that might potentially be offensive. Today, we say good for you to the University of Colorado. The University of Colorado Board of Regents is giving all incoming students a letter expressing the University's commitment to free speech and expression. It's great to see a university stand for intellectual diversity. In search of sanity, I'm Isabel Brown for Prager University. Thank you for watching this video. To help keep PragerU videos free, please consider making a tax-deductible donation.
Is there such a thing as truth? Or is everything, including truth, a statement of personal opinion or preference? In other words, is truth relative? For our purposes here, let's put aside the science angle. Yes, you can sit on a couch and not appear to be moving, but since the earth, at the equator, is rotating at 1100 miles per hour, you are, from that perspective, moving - and very fast. I'm not talking about that kind of relative. Let's confine ourselves to the more everyday questions of truth. Like, does it exist? Once, the answer to this question was obvious - usually confined to late-night discussions in college dorm rooms. But no longer. Truth is going through a tough time. A white woman feels black and represents herself to be so. She rises in the leadership ranks of the NAACP until her fiction is exposed. She refuses to go quietly, however. She feels black, and so she is black. A 69 year-old man in the Netherlands petitions the court to legally change his age to 49 because that's how he feels. And, of course, seemingly on a daily basis, men (and more and more boys), with all the chromosomes and body parts that make them distinctly male, declare themselves to be female; and women (and more and more girls) likewise declare themselves to be male. They feel they are one sex or the other; therefore, they are that sex. And we must accept that, regardless of what the truth is. In a viral video, a 5-foot, 9-inch American Caucasian male asks students at the University of Washington to acknowledge that he's Chinese, or six-foot-five, or a woman. Some hesitate, but no one will tell him what he's saying is not true that he's not what he says he is. That would be mean - and intolerant. This true for you, but not for me relativism is disconcerting because it requires the acceptance of obvious contradictions, denial of reality, and common sense. Rather than adjusting our lives to the truth, the truth has to adjust itself to us. But it's very difficult to live this way, not to mention it being highly impractical. We rely on mind-independent universal truths in order to think clearly, to navigate life. Otherwise, we quickly get lost. There must be some things that just are - things that are true. This way points North for everybody, no matter what anyone happens to prefer or sincerely believe. So, what is truth? At its root, truth is a match-up with reality. A story, a statement, or belief is only true if it lines up with what's real. It's like a socket wrench fitting perfectly onto a bolt. Reality is the truth-maker; reality makes something true. To say the earth is flat or the moon is made of green cheese is false. Why? Because it doesn't match up with reality. Until quite recently, the purpose of all education in large part was the pursuit of truth. The motto of Harvard University, for example, is veritas, Latin for truth. No more. Anyone who says education should be about the pursuit of truth is immediately shot down with the comeback: Whose truth? Increasingly, people speak of my truth, or say it's true for me, or your reality - as though truth is merely a matter of opinion or perspective. At the 2018 Golden Globe awards, Oprah Winfrey famously said that speaking your truth is the most powerful tool we all have. Now, you can have your experience or your perspective. But there is no such thing as your truth or my truth. There is only the truth - that which is true for everyone. As Wall Street Journal writer Byron Tau noted, Oprah employed a phrase that I've noticed a lot of other celebrities using these days: your truth' instead of the truth.' But, he added, 'your truth' undermines the idea of shared common facts. And here's another problem with your truth: If your truth is truth, anyone who doesn't hold that truth must be wrong. This sounds a lot like narcissism. And it's intellectual bullying. Believe my truth' - or else. Not exactly a positive, pro-truth message. Yeah, truth is going through a tough time. So let's review: Truth can't be relative. If it is relative, it's not truth. To say there is no truth for all people is to declare a truth for all people. In effect, you're saying, It's true that there is no truth! And to declare that both your and my opinions are true even if they contradict one another is to speak nonsense. Truth isn't opinion or preference. It's not subjective or relative. It is inescapable because reality is inescapable. No amount of double-talk will change that. And that's the truth. I'm Paul Copan, author of True for You, But Not for Me, for Prager University.
But you also had people that were very fine people on both sides. You had people in that group. Excuse me. Excuse me I saw the same pictures as you did. You had people in that group that were there to protest the taking down of (to them) a very very important statue. I've condemned Neo-Nazis. I've condemned many different groups. But not all of those people were Neo-Nazis, believe me. Not all of those people were white supremacist by any stretch. You know case after case of racial rhetoric coming out of the white house and then when you have an actual incident of white nationalist terrorism like the killing in Charlottesville related to people saying Jews will not replace us and the president saying got very fine people there. Of course this is part of a climate where people who are in the grip of this hateful extremist ideology feel validated and they feel validated from all the way at the top and that is part of our problem. He refuses to take responsibility for anything even when he's wrong. Even when he's proven wrong refuses to take responsibility. It's incredible and the fact that he held this press conference and continuously made excuses for the white supremacists I mean it just further reinforces what we already knew. The only thing I'm doubting right now is whether you're still going to be president by Friday...because... What the hell are you talking about? You know one side hates minorities. The other side hates people who hate minorities. Okay, two sides alright? It's just like d-day remember d-day? Two sides... Allies and the Nazis there was a lot of violence on both sides, okay? Ruined a beautiful beach. Politicians lie. We all know that. This is not an indictment of all politicians. It's simply part of the game. It's our job as informed citizens to figure out the truth. And that's where journalists and the media come in. They are supposed to help us ferret out fact from fiction. So, when they get a fact wrong, that's bad. When they get a fact wrong, know it's wrong, and don't correct it, that's worse. That's not getting a fact wrong. That's a lie, and that's journalistic malfeasance. The best or maybe worst example of this followed a presidential press conference at Trump Tower on Tuesday August 15, 2017. You remember what happened that previous weekend. A group of white supremacists held a white pride rally in Charlottesville, Virginia The extensible reason was to protest the removal of a statue of Confederate General Robert E Lee. An Antifa group showed up to counter protest. The mayor and the police were totally unprepared to deal with the violence that ensued. Tragically a young woman Heather Heyer was run over and killed by a Neo-Nazi. The press conference itself was raucous. The media was antagonistic. The president was combative. Out of it all, one phrase eclipse the thousands of words exchanged. The media reported that President Trump described Neo-Nazis as "very fine people" Only he didn't. In fact, he didn't even hint at it. Just the opposite. He condemned the Neo-Nazis in no uncertain terms. So then who were the fine people he mentioned? The answer? He was referring to another group of Charlottesville demonstrators who came out that weekend? Protesters who wanted the Robert E Lee statue removed and protestors who wanted to keep the statue and restore the park's original name. This is what President Trump said about those peaceful protesters. "You also had some very fine people on both sides. You had people in that group that were there to protest the taking down of to them a very very important statue and the renaming of a park from Robert E Lee to another name." A few moments later in case there would be any misunderstanding he makes his meaning even more explicit. "I'm not talking about the Neo-Nazis and the white nationalists. They should be condemned totally." Lest you have any doubts that good people were in Charlottesville to protest the removal of the Robert E Lee statue, The New York Times confirmed it in a story they published the next day, August 16th. "Good people can go to Charlottesville," said Michelle Percy, a nightshift worker and a Wichita, Kansas retirement home, who drove all night with a conservative group that opposed the planned removal of a statue of the Confederate General Robert E Lee. After listening to Mr. Trump on Tuesday, she said it was as if he had channeled her and her friends...who had no interest in standing with Nazis or white supremacists..." There is another simple test that we can employ to prove that the president was not referring to the Neo-Nazis as "fine people." It's so obvious it's painful to mention. The president's daughter and son-in-law are Orthodox Jews. His grandchildren are Jewish. And if that's still not enough to convince you how about this? Does anyone believe that Donald Trump thinks there are good Antifa? The leftist thugs who were counter protesting the Neo-Nazi thugs? After all if those two groups were the only ones involved and there were "fine people" on both sides, that means the president believed that there were fine Antifa people. Even MSNBC should have found that hard to swallow. Again, the very fine people on both sides president Trump described at the press conference were the people who wanted to remove The Robert E Lee statue and the people who wanted to keep it. Both of these groups were nonviolent protesters. "Fine people" with very different ideological views. The scandal of Charlottesville is not what President Trump said about Neo-Nazis. It's what the media said President Trump said about Neo-Nazis. It's a scandal because news reporting is supposed to be about gathering facts, not promoting an agenda. In Charlottesville, they got it exactly backwards. We have been living with the consequences ever since. Plainly put, ABC, CBS, NBC, NPR, The New York Times, The Washington Post, and the others spread a malicious lie that has poisoned our national dialogue. They should apologize to the American people for what they have done. Don't hold your breath. Actually, I have a better idea. Let out a big sigh of relief because now you know the truth. I'm Steve Cortez. CNN political commentator and columnist for Real Clear Politics for Prager University.
Politicians lie. We all know that. That is not an indictment of all politicians - it's simply part of the game. It's our job, as informed citizens, to figure out the truth. And that's where journalists and the media come in. They are supposed to help us ferret out fact from fiction. So when they get a fact wrong, that's bad. When they get a fact wrong, know it's wrong, and don't correct it, that's worse. That's not getting a fact wrong; that's a lie. And that's journalistic malfeasance. The best (or maybe worst) example of this followed a presidential press conference at Trump Tower on Tuesday, August 15, 2017. You remember what happened that previous weekend: A group of white supremacists held a white pride rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. The ostensible reason was to protest the removal of a statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee. An Antifa group showed up to counter-protest. The mayor and the police were totally unprepared to deal with the violence that ensued. Tragically, a young woman, Heather Heyer, was run over and killed by a neo-Nazi. The press conference itself was raucous. The media was antagonistic. The president was combative. Out of it all, one phrase eclipsed the thousands of words exchanged: The media reported that President Trump described neo-Nazis as very fine people. Only, he didn't. In fact, he didn't even hint at it. Just the opposite: he condemned the neo-Nazis in no uncertain terms. So then, who were the fine people he mentioned? The answer: He was referring to another group of Charlottesville demonstrators who came out that weekend - protestors who wanted the Robert E. Lee statue removed and protestors who wanted to keep the statue and restore the park's original name. This is what President Trump said about those peaceful protestors: You also had some very fine people on both sides. . . . You had people in that group that were there to protest the taking down of - to them - a very, very important statue and the renaming of a park from Robert E. Lee to another name. A few moments later, in case there would be any misunderstanding, he makes his meaning even more explicit. I'm not talking about the neo-Nazis and the white nationalists. They should be condemned totally. Lest you have any doubts that good people were in Charlottesville to protest the removal of the Robert E Lee statue, the New York Times confirmed it in a story they published the next day, August 16. 'Good people can go to Charlottesville,' said Michelle Piercy, a night shift worker at a Wichita, Kansas retirement home, who drove all night with a conservative group that opposed the planned removal of a statue of the Confederate general Robert E. Lee. After listening to Mr. Trump on Tuesday, she said it was as if he had channeled her and her friends who had no interest in standing with Nazis or white supremacists There's another simple test that we can employ to prove that the president was not referring to the neo-Nazis as fine people. It's so obvious, it's painful to mention: The president's daughter and son-in-law are Orthodox Jews. His grandchildren are Jewish. And if that is still not enough to convince you, how about this: Does anyone believe that Donald Trump thinks there are good Antifa, the leftist thugs who were counter-protesting the neo-Nazi thugs? After all, if those two groups were the only ones involved, and there were fine people on both sides, that means the president believed that there were fine Antifa people. Even MSNBC should have found that hard to swallow. Again, the very fine people on both sides President Trump described at the press conference were the people who wanted to remove the Robert E. Lee statue and the people who wanted to keep it. Both of these groups were non-violent protesters - fine people with very different ideological views. The scandal of Charlottesville is not what President Trump said about neo-Nazis. It's what the media said President Trump said about neo-Nazis. It's a scandal because news reporting is supposed to be about gathering facts, not promoting an agenda. In Charlottesville, they got it exactly backwards. We have been living with the consequences ever since. Plainly put: ABC, CBS, NBC, NPR, the New York Times, the Washington Post and the others spread a malicious lie that has poisoned our national dialogue. They should apologize to the American people for what they have done. Don't hold your breath. Actually, I have a better idea. Let out a big sigh of relief. Because now you know the truth. I'm Steve Cortes, CNN political commentator and columnist for Real Clear Politics, for Prager University.
We face an existential threat. Life as we know it is on the line. We have 12 short years to change everything or it's game over. This is the terrifying scenario that's used by many leading politicians to justify a Green New Deal: an unprecedented increase in government power focused on the energy industry. The core idea of a Green New Deal is that government should rapidly prohibit the use of fossil fuel energy and impose 100% renewable energy, mostly solar and wind. This may sound appealing, but consider what it would entail. Today, 80% of the energy Americans use to heat their homes, farm their land, run their factories, and drive their cars comes from fossil fuels: coal, oil, and natural gas. Only 3.4% comes from solar and wind - despite decades of government subsidies and mandates to encourage their use. The reason we don't use much sunlight and wind as energy is that they are unreliable fuels that only work when the sun shines and the wind blows. That's why no town, city, or country has ever come close to 100% - or even 50% - solar and wind. And yet, Green New Deal proponents say they can do the impossible - if only we give the government control of the energy industry and control of major users of energy, such as the transportation industry, manufacturing, and agriculture. All of this is justified by the need to do something about the existential threat of rising CO2 levels. We're told on a daily basis that prestigious organizations like the United Nations have predicted mass destruction and death if we don't get off fossil fuels. What we're not told is that such predictions have a decades-long track record of getting it wrong - and by wrong, I mean completely-missing-the-dart-board wrong. For example, in 1989, the Associated Press reported a United Nations prediction that entire nations could be wiped off the face of the earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000. We're now two decades past 2000, we're not missing any nations, and human beings are living longer, healthier, and wealthier lives than ever before. But aren't things bound to get worse? Haven't scientists established that CO2 is a greenhouse gas with a warming influence on the planet? Yes - but that's only a small part of the big picture. Although CO2 causes some warming, it's much less significant than we've been told. Since we started using significant amounts of fossil fuels in the middle of the 19th century, we've increased the percentage of CO2 in the atmosphere from .03% to .04%, which correlates with an average temperature increase of about 2 degrees Fahrenheit. It also correlates with significant global greening - because CO2 is plant food. All of this is far from unprecedented territory for our planet, which has existed with at least 10 times today's CO2 levels and a 25-degree warmer average temperature. What is truly unprecedented, though, is how safe we are from climate. The International Disaster Database, a nonpartisan organization that tracks deaths from climate-related causes - such as extreme heat, floods, storms, and drought - shows that such deaths have been plummeting as CO2 emissions have been rising. How is this possible? Because of the fossil fuel energy that emitted the CO2, which has empowered us to climate-proof our environment with heating, air-conditioning, sturdy buildings, mass irrigation, and weather warning systems. Fossil fuel energy has not taken a naturally safe climate and made it unnaturally dangerous; it's taken our naturally dangerous climate and made it unnaturally safe. Fossil fuels are not an existential threat. They are an existential resource because they increase something much more important than the level of CO2 in the atmosphere: the level of human empowerment. Increased life expectancy, income, health, leisure time, and education are all tightly linked to increased access to fossil fuels. Does this mean that we shouldn't look for lower carbon energy alternatives? Of course not. But the alternatives should lead us toward more abundant, more reliable power, not less. The most promising form of alternative energy is not unreliable solar and wind, but reliable, carbon-free nuclear energy. Sweden gets 40% of its electricity from nuclear. France, over 70%. While nuclear energy is smeared as unsafe, it has actually been demonstrated by study after study to be the safest form of energy ever created. And yet, Green New Deal proponents, who say that we have 12 years to save the planet from rising CO2 levels, vigorously oppose nuclear - in addition to all fossil - fuel use. By opposing every affordable, abundant, reliable form of energy, the Green New Deal won't protect us from an existential threat; it is an existential threat. I'm Alex Epstein, author of The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels, for Prager University.
Here is Paul Joseph Watson I was banned from Facebook and by proxy Instagram the same company, obviously Because I had interviewed Tommy Robinson on my YouTube channel three years previously So it was nothing to do with anything I posted I you know Everyone's been suspended for a week on Facebook over the course of the past ten years But no direct violations of any of their policies Now Tommy Robinson has done interviews with BBC, Sky News, ITN. Are their Facebook page is gonna be wiped out now? I mean, what is the solution to this? well We we had one possible solution with senator Hall introducing this bill, which would treat Facebook Twitter and YouTube and Google as how they behave As publishers rather than platforms -Love that if you threaten to take away that immunity and what this bill does is They have to report to a commission in the US and prove that they're politically neutral and nonpartisan To maintain that immunity from lawsuits Right now what we're seeing happening on the left is that they they want to they want to see a breakdown of society Simply to say I told you so because the person that they didn't want to be in the oval office is sitting there
- Hey, do you know where I get a biodegradable protest sign? - Are you man-spreading right now? - Hey, do you want to come to my gender reveal party on Saturday? - You're pregnant? - Oh, no, my kids are 5. - They're just revealing their own gender. - Oh. - Honestly, capitalism is destroying America. - Hey, do you want to go to a Women's March? You're coming to March for our lives, right? Are we gonna go to the climate change rally? - It's really cold outside. - It's climate change. - Gas is so expensive to fill up my car right now. - Climate change. - Ow! My feet hurt so bad! - It's climate change. - If Trump wins 2020, I am literally going to move to Denmark. - I just really feel like there's not enough bike lanes in LA. - Honestly, AOC is our new Beyonce. - Mom, did you wash my Che Guevara shirt? - Okay, go right here. - I don't go right, I only go left. - I just really don't understand how Twitter hasn't banned Donald Trump yet. - Hey, buddy! Hey! What are his pronouns? [Isabel Brown sighs] - I can't believe they gave me a plastic straw. - It's like, he identifies as a male dog. - Hey mom, is this soap gluten-free? - Hey, I just got my DNA test back and I'm 1/1,024 Cherokee. - Do you think you can get reparations for that? - I just really feel like we would be friends. - Hey, I'll look up some places for dinner. - Make sure it's a gun-free zone. Oh, and make sure they have gender-neutral bathrooms, and make sure the staff is very diverse. Was that a bicycle parking? - My thyroids really have been acting up. - I bet it's climate change. - Dude, I just found this thing on YouTube called PragerU-- that's not even a real university. - I just really feel like all conservatives are white supremacists, you know?
For every dollar a white dude makes, I would get 53%. [grabs dollar bill and rips it] Because I'm Latina. [women ripping off dollar bills] - As a black woman, I'd get 61%. [woman rips off dollar bill] - As a white woman, I'd get 77%. [woman rips off dollar bill] Drinks on me! - As an Asian woman, I would get 85%! [rip] Whoop, whoop! - You know you're in The Bad Place when you're celebrating only losing 15% of your paycheck. - On average, each American woman loses over $10,000 to the gender pay gap annually. - The 77-cents-on-the-dollar statistic is calculated by dividing the median earnings of all women working full-time by the median earnings of all men working full-time. In other words, if the average income of all men is, say, $40,000 a year, and the average annual income of all women is, say, $30,800, That would mean that women earn 77 cents for every dollar a man earns; 30,800/40,000 = 0.77 But these calculations don't reveal a gender wage injustice, because they don't take into account occupation, position, education, or hours worked per week. Even a study by the American Association of University Women, a feminist organization, shows that the actual wage gap shrinks to only 6.6 cents when you factor in different choices men and women make, and the keyword here is "choice"! The small wage gap that does exist has nothing to do with paying women less, let alone with sexism! It has to do with differences in individual career choices that men and women make. - Some people think the wage gap is fabricated or exaggerated because women work less or choose less lucrative careers. - Have you met any women lately? - Georgetown University compiled a list of the five best paying college majors and the percentage of men and women majoring in those fields. Notice that women out represent men and only one of the five top paying majors by only a few percentage points. Now consider the same study's list of the five worst paying college majors. Here, it's the women who lead in all but one category. - But women earn less, even when their jobs are identical to men. - Take female surgeons, who make just 62% of their male counterparts' salaries, losing an average of almost $40,000 a year. Now if someone's removing my appendix, they better not cut out just 62% of it. Even within the same profession, men and women make different career choices that impact how much money they make. Take nursing, where male nurses, on the whole, earn 18% more than female nurses. The reason? Male nurses gravitate to the best paying nursing specialties, they work longer hours, and disproportionately find jobs in cities with the highest compensation. Now here's how one expert on nursing compensation professor Linda Aiken of the University of Pennsylvania sums up the data: "...Career choices and educational differences explain most, if not all, the gender gap in nursing." And here's another variable: men are more willing and able to work long hours without advance notice. According to Harvard economist Claudia Goldin, even if two lawyers have the same education, same specialty, and work the same number of hours, firms pay more to someone who is willing to always be on-call and ready to be in the office when the firm needs them, as opposed to wanting a more regular schedule. This isn't sexism, it's just common sense. I'm Christina Hoff Sommers of the American Enterprise Institute for Prager University.
From left-wing Democrat to right-wing Republican, everyone loves infrastructure. We all want safe bridges, smooth roads, and world-class airports. So why can't we have them? Why are America's bridges falling down, our roads riddled with potholes, and many of our major airports dilapidated? Why can't the United States build or repair infrastructure like European and Asian countries do? The answer is not complex. America doesn't have better infrastructure because of two groups: environmental activists and labor unions. What has happened to the Keystone XL pipeline, a project to bring oil from Canada to refineries in the U.S., is a typical example. According to environmental groups, this vital piece of infrastructure is a guaranteed disaster. Never mind that pipelines are, by all measures, a much safer way to transport oil than rail cars. Say the words fossil fuel, and the Greens are against it. In November 2018, in the U.S. District Court of Montana, Judge Brian Morris, an Obama appointee, halted Keystone's construction - for the third time. The first final environmental review approving construction was released by Hillary Clinton's State Department in 2011. It concluded that the environmental impact would not be significant. A second final environmental review also approved the project. It was released in 2014 by John Kerry's State Department, and also foresaw little environmental impact. Judge Morris's third review may be the charm for the Greens. At this point, a full decade into the process, it's hard to see the pipeline ever being completed. Keystone is a case study of what Brookings Institute scholar Robert Kagan calls adversarial legalism - environmental reviews of every aspect of every public improvement. In a given year, the federal government produces 50,000 environmental assessments. Individual states and cities add thousands more. And this isn't new. A routine dredging project in Oakland Harbor begun in the 1970s wasn't completed until the mid-1990s because of legal and environmental challenges. Four such challenges gummed up a water-desalination plant, urgently needed in dry San Diego. That process started in 2003 and was needlessly delayed for 12 years. Simply raising New Jersey's Bayonne Bridge roadway a bit to allow taller ships through - a move that had almost no environmental impact, since it was merely an adjustment of an already-built site - proceeded only after five years of review and 20,000 pages of environmental studies. Americans like to think of themselves as more free-wheeling and less regulated than European and Asian countries, but when it comes to infrastructure, this just isn't true. Europe and Asia don't have the redundant layers of city, state, and federal bureaucracies that we do. As a result, their ideas get proposed, approved, and built in the time it takes us to agonize over a single environmental impact study. And, to add insult to injury, their roads, bridges, subways, and airports are much cheaper to construct. A 2011 study by Israeli mathematician Alon Levy found that a mile of subway track in Japan or continental Europe typically costs $200 to $450 million dollars per mile. Vancouver, Canada comes in lower than that. The Canada Line, a 40-percent underground rail system in a densely populated area, cost $130 million per mile. Even on the high end, London's underground Jubilee Line extension of the Tube, which opened in 1999, cost $640 million per mile. But in New York City, the Second Avenue Subway, a two-mile extension of an existing line, took ten years and cost $2.4 billion per mile! And that's not an anomaly. The East Side Access project connecting Long Island residents to the East Side of Manhattan is set to cost an astonishing $3.5 billion per mile, according to the New York Times, which calls that seven times the average cost in other cities around the world. Construction began in 2007 and hopes to wrap in 2022. 2030 sounds more realistic. Why is everything so expensive to build in the U.S.? Enter the labor unions. Their motto seems to be: Work slowly and charge more. Sometimes, Don't work at all. Workers from New York City's Sandhogs union, which is critical to such projects, cost an astounding $111 per hour in wages and benefits, according to the Times' investigation. A task that could be done in Madrid with nine workers requires 24 in New York City, according to an estimate by the city's own Metropolitan Transportation Authority. It gets worse: an investigation of East Side Access construction found that roughly 200 of 900 workers on the underground project were being paid to do nothing. And such price tags and questionable union practices are not unique to New York City. In Boston, a simple Green Line extension of the light-rail network that is being built on the surface - not underground - is set to cost some $530 million dollars per mile. The result of all this? Americans are living in a 20th century infrastructure world. We can't build a 21st century one. The unions and environmentalists won't let us. I'm Kyle Smith, of National Review, for Prager University.
CRUZ: Mr. Prager, we'll start with you. PRAGER: I will take just a moment Because my opening comment is under five minutes just to respond on the issue of the Ten Commandment Ten Commandments video that was a placed on the restricted list by Google the representative from Google mentioned that in a Reason that it would be on the restricted list Was that it contains mentions of murder. So I was thinking I have a solution that will I think appeal to Google. I will re-release it as that the nine commandments. That should solve the problem of Including murder in my discussion of the Ten Commandments, and as regards the swastika. Yes, there is a swastika It is again in the commandment of do not murder wherein I show that murder there are people who believe murder is all right, even today and I use the swastika and The and the hammer and sickle has two examples. I would think we would want young people to associate the swastika with evil. That was why I had a swastika It was an honor to be invited to speak in the United States Senate But I wish I were not so honored because the subject of this hearing Google and YouTube's and for that matter Twitter and Facebook suppression of Internet content on ideological grounds threatens the future of America more than any external enemy in Fact never in American history has there been as strong a threat to freedom of speech as there is today Before addressing this. However, I think it important that you know a bit about me and the organization I co-founded Prager University Prager you as it is often referred to I was born in Brooklyn, New York My late father max Prager was a CPA and an Orthodox Jew who? volunteered to serve in the US Navy at the start of World War two My father senior class thesis at the City College of New York Was on anti-semitism in America yet. Despite his keen awareness of the subject He believed that Jews living in America were the luckiest Jews to have ever lived He was right Having taught Jewish history at Brooklyn College written a book on anti-semitism and fought Jew hatred my whole life. I Thank God for living in America Breaks my heart that a vast number of young Americans have not only not been taught how lucky they are to be Americans But have been taught either how unlucky they are or how ashamed they should be It breaks my heart for them because contempt for one's country leaves a terrible hole in one's soul and Because ungrateful people always become unhappy and angry people and it breaks my heart for America Because no good country can survive when its people have contempt for it. I Have been communicating this appreciation of America for 35 years as a radio talk-show host The last 20 in national syndication with the Salem radio network an organization. That is a blessing in American life One reason I started Prager you was to communicate America's moral purpose and moral achievements both to young Americans and to young people around the world With a billion views a year and with more than half of the viewers under age 35 Prager u has achieved some success My philosophy of life is easily summarized God wants us to be good God without goodness is fanaticism and Goodness, without God will not long endure Everything I and Prager you do emanates from belief in the importance of being a good person that Some label us extreme or quote haters only reflects on the character and the broken moral compass of those making such accusations they are the haters and extremists Praeger you releases a five-minute video every week our presenters include three former prime ministers for Pulitzer Prize winners liberals conservatives gays blacks Latinos atheists believers Jews Christians Muslims and professors and scientists from MIT Harvard Stanford and a dozen other universities Do you think the Secretary General of NATO or the former prime ministers of Norway? Canada or Spain or the late Charles Krauthammer or Philip hamburger a distinguished professor of law at Columbia Law School? Would make a video for an extreme or hate-filled site. The idea is not only preposterous It is a smear yet Google which owns YouTube has restricted access to 56 of our 325 minute videos and two other videos we produce Restricted means families that have a filter to avoid pornography and violence cannot see that video It also means that no school or library can show that video Google has even restricted access to a video on the 10 commandments as we have seen Yes, the Ten Commandments we have repeatedly asked Google why our videos are restricted No explanation is ever given? But of course we know why Because they come from a conservative perspective Liberals and conservatives differ on many issues, but they have always agreed that free speech must be preserved while the left has never supported free speech liberals Always have I therefore appeal to liberals to join us in fighting on behalf of America's crowning glory? free speech otherwise, I promise you one day you will say first they came after conservatives and I said nothing and Then they came after me and there was no one left to speak up for me. Thank you Thank You, mr. Prager You
You are looking at a dangerous person. You may feel unsafe - even threatened - by my very existence. What is this power I possess? It's calledfree speech. While I always knew it was there, I recently discovered its true value. Here is my story. It could easily be yours. I'm a journalist, an author, and a podcaster. I live in Portland, Oregon. My husband owns a few local coffee shops and small coffee roasting business called Ristretto Roasters. In December 2018, I started a YouTube podcast entitled #MeNeither. The show's about page reads, #MeNeither is an almost-weekly conversation about the cultural issues of the day, and an attempt to create a space where people can find ways to think out loud through uncomfortable topics. One of those topics is the #MeToo movement and what I see as some of its excesses, including celebrities who exploit #MeToo for personal gain. Sexual assault and harassment are real, but the idea that any charge any woman - or man - brings must be believed without questionwhere's the logic in that? I believe we are better off judging any claim of harassment, like any other claim, on its own merits. This, I would learn, is not a popular position. It turned out, one of the people tuning in to my new show was a former employee of my husband's coffee business. She claimed my views were vile, dangerous, and extremely misguided and, in an email to the press, claimed my opinions created a demoralizing and hostile environment for employees. Why would the opinions of the wife of the boss demoralize an employee? No one bothered to ask that question. That I appeared to be on the wrong side of the #MeToo debate was all people needed to know. By the time you could say Twitter, a social media mob formed to say they would never spend another penny at my husband's business. A college-age girl stormed into one of the cafes screaming, variously, that the baristas were in danger and that their working at the cafe posed a threat to the community. Employees previously secure in their jobs grew jittery and quit. One suggested that my husband sell the company and that I offer a public apology before it was too late. This all happened within the first 48 hours. As the outrage grew, local businesses that make up a big part of my husband's base cut and run. Wholesale customers cancelled large accounts, afraid they'd be caught in the #MeToo crossfire. Staff now worried that they'd lose their jobs (and health insurance) if Ristretto were forced to close; that I - a person with whom they'd heretofore had a perfectly congenial relationship - might, in fact, be a secret monster, a rape culture apologist. Many of those who claimed to have been offended had not seen the podcast. One woman wrote, I clicked, down-voted, then reported on YouTube that it violates community guidelines: hateful I didn't listen, but it's one way to make that [expletive] go away. This kind of uninformed, virtual attack strikes me as childish - the behavior of a toddler whose tantrum brings a dinner party to a halt until it's placated with the attention it seeks. I invited my critics to speak with me - the whole point of #MeNeither is to provoke discussion. No one took me up on my offer. It was evidently easier for so-called feminists to tell my husband to leave his wife or lose his business, for some random dude on Facebook to send me the message, You are scum. Rot in hell you dirty... - just use your imagination - than to honestly confront me. I can't help but think that those who engage in this kind of behavior are steering themselves into perpetually unhappy waters, that they live in fear that everyone and everything is out to get them, so therefore they must strike first. Or are they addicted to the feeling that what they are doing is righteous? Not considering intolerance in the name of tolerance is a frightening contradiction and solves nothing. Or maybe they think they are making progress. But if this is progress, one might reasonably ask, for whom? And to what end? It's also contrary to what is most fundamental to America: that every citizen has the equal right to voice his or her opinion, and to express these opinions in a public forum. My story is one of many, another cautionary tale for those who get pulled into the culture wars. I understand why most people want to stay out of it. It's scary to fight for liberty and against a mob. The whole thing is exhausting. I have repeatedly been asked, usually in you should have known better tones, if I am going to stop having nuanced conversations about sensitive subjects. The answer is absolutely not. And if that makes you feel unsafe? Too bad. I'm Nancy Rommelmann, journalist and author, for Prager University.
What's up guys? This is Will Witt with PragerU. Today, we're on Venice Beach talking to people about the police and if they're racist. Let's do it. What are you guys thoughts on the police? In what sense? The first words that come to mind. - Pigs. - I was gonna say pigs. I don't trust them. Brutality. I think they can be a bit aggressive. So you guys think the police are racist? Oh, 100%. I'm just on Twitter all the time and on Twitter, I see lots of videos of them being racist so that's just- That must mean they're racist. I've been incarcerated, you know before and I've been beat down by the police. You know what I mean? My color skintone has gotten me away from things but I'm Mexican. You know when I speak Spanish, they actually like, you know stick their guns out. There's a lot of institutionalized racism. People are being persecuted wrongly for things that... you know, they shouldn't be persecuted for it. Just frankly, it's too much. We already know at the end of the day if they- if... the KKK members took off their hood. A lot of them are police officers. A lot of them are people in power. So that's the real word that we've be living in since day one. There's a lot of racial profiling and bias that just comes with the job is kind of the excuse all the time, and I don't think it's fair or right. There's so many times with kids just playing, you know playing basketball, and the police pulls a gun on a kid like come on. I don't think they're racist as a whole. I mean, there are probably racists mixed in. I mean, people are flawed I mean, there's sure to be some in there but as a whole... I don't think so. I think it's a select few that have ruined it for everybody. Their race shouldn't determine how much of a criminal they are; their actions determine that. Does the fact that African Americans in general commit more crimes than than white people change your mind on that at all? You can have stats on something but it doesn't change the fact that every single person is an individual. I was reading this thing: it said whites and Hispanics are more likely to be shot by the cops and black people are. Police officers are 18 times more likely to be killed by a black man than a black man is to be killed by a police officer. Actually blacks are shot less than white people on average by the police. They found when they put police in more communities - more police in communities - actually the crime rate goes down in these places when they put more police in. I've seen that. The stats also would say that African Americans are treated much worse by the police for the same crimes that white people do. Unless you can point out a certain person or like policy that's racist, it's kind of just telling people, "oh you can't succeed because the institution is racist and there's nothing you can do about it". You know what I mean? So instead we should look at like an individual person say, "oh that person's racist", "that cop is racist." - Yeah, I think they're good cops and bad cops. - Yeah, it's like they're good people and bad people. It'll be sure excited to say that you know, label a whole group - an institutional group of people - as one thing. You know, I think it's- I mean, it becomes a question about you know, the character of the individual. They're arresting that guy over there. It's racist.
Was Jesus a socialist? Well, if socialism is nothing more than being kind to other people, then you might think the answer is yes. But you can be kind to other people and be a capitalist. John D. Rockefeller probably gave away more money than anyone in human history, and he was certainly a capitalist. Bill Gates and Warren Buffet have given away millions, too. To get an accurate answer to our question, we need to define socialism. Socialism is the concentration of power into the hands of government elites to achieve the following purposes: central planning of the economy and the radical redistribution of wealth. Jesus never called for any of that. Nowhere in the New Testament does he advocate for the government to punish the rich - or even to use tax money to help the poor. Nor does he promote the ideas of state ownership of businesses or central planning of the economy. In Luke 12, Jesus is confronted by a man who wants him to redistribute wealth. Master, the man says to Jesus, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. Jesus replies, Man, who made me a judge or divider over you? and then he rebukes the man for being envious of his sibling. How about Jesus's Parable of the Talents (talents were a form of money in Jesus's day)? A man entrusted three of his workers with his wealth. The two who invested the money and made a profit were praised and the one who buried his share so he wouldn't lose any of it was reprimanded. Sounds a lot more like an endorsement for capitalism than socialism, doesn't it? Yes, Jesus spoke of the difficulty for a rich man to enter Heaven, but not because having money is evil. It's not money; rather, it is the love of money, the New Testament tells us, that leads to evil. Jesus was warning us not to put acquisition of money and material possessions above our spiritual and moral lives. Was Jesus promoting a socialist model when he kicked the moneychangers out of the Temple in Jerusalem? Again, the answer is no. Note the location where the incident occurred: it was in the holiest of places - God's house. Jesus was not angry at buying and selling in and of themselves; he was angry that these things happened in a house of prayer. He never drove a moneychanger from a marketplace or from a bank. Jesus advises us to be of generous spirit - to show kindness, to assist the widow and the orphan. But he clearly means this to be our responsibility, not the government's. Consider Jesus's Good Samaritan story. A traveler comes upon a man at the side of a road. The man had been beaten and robbed and left half-dead. What did the traveler, the Good Samaritan, do? He helps the unfortunate man on the spot, with his own resources. Ask yourself: To help the poor, would Jesus prefer that you give your money freely to the Salvation Army, for example, or have it taxed by politicians to fund a welfare bureaucracy? Progressives like to point out that Jesus said, Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. But that has absolutely nothing to do with high taxes or wealth redistribution. It was the seed for the idea of separating church and state. It certainly wasn't the same as saying that whatever Caesar says is his must then be so, no matter how much he demands or what he intends to use it for. So, there is no evidence that Jesus was a socialist. And there is lots of evidence that he supported free markets. In addition to the Parable of the Talents, Jesus offers his Parable of the Workers in the Vineyard. In it, a landowner hires some laborers to pick grapes. Near the end of the day, he realizes he needs more workers to get the job done. To recruit them, he agrees to pay a full day's wage for just one hour of work. When one of the laborers who had worked an entire day complains, the landowner answers, I am not being unfair to you, friend. Didn't you agree to work for a denarius? Don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money? That's a testament to the principles of supply and demand, of private property, and of voluntary contracts, not socialism. Jesus never endorsed the forced redistribution of wealth. That idea is rooted in envy, something that he, and the Tenth of the Ten Commandments, railed against. Most importantly, Jesus cared about helping the less fortunate. He never would have approved anything that undermines wealth creation. And the only thing that has ever created wealth and lifted masses of people out of poverty is free market capitalism. Read the New Testament. The plain meaning of the text is loud and clear: Jesus was not a socialist. He couldn't be. He loved people, not the state. I'm Lawrence Reed, president of the Foundation for Economic Education, for Prager University.
I picked a fine time to become an American. It was a grey, overcast morning in Oakland, California. I was one of 1,094 people of every color and creed, from 85 nations, beginning with Afghanistan and ending with Yemen. We had gathered, anxiously clutching the requisite documents, outside the rather antique Paramount cinema. I wasn't the only new citizen of European origin, but we were a distinct minority. Rather to my surprise, the Chinese were the most numerous group, accounting for close to a fifth of the new Americans. (How many Americans became Chinese citizens that week?) Next were the Mexicans (more than 150 of them), then the Filipinos, closely followed by the Indians. Yet it was the sheer range of countries represented that was most marvelous. The young man to my right, immaculately dressed in white, was from Eritrea. He had studied computer science in Wales and had initially come to California to work for NASA. I approach any encounter with US bureaucracy weighed down by dread. So I wondered, would this be like the Department of Motor Vehicles, famed for its Soviet-style antagonism to the public? Or would it be more like the implacable, pitiless Internal Revenue Service? In fact, the officials of the US Citizenship and Immigration Services could hardly have been more affable. The master of ceremonies was a genial, balding, bespectacled chap who won his audience over with a virtuoso display of multilingualism, chatting to us in what sounded like pretty fluent Spanish, Chinese, French, Hindi and Tagalog. Yet this was very far from a multicultural occasion. Quite the reverse. To get us in the mood for our impending Americanization, a choir sang a patriotic medley, including a rather baroque setting of the preamble to the constitution, Yankee Doodle, and Woody Guthrie's This Land Is Your Land. Well, that did it! The way that song conjures up vast American landscapes (From the redwood forest / To the Gulf Stream waters) always gets me by the throat because, glimpsed in films, such vistas were what first drew me to the United States. Then came the information about our rights and obligations - specifically, our right to vote, our option to obtain a passport and our inextricable link to the Social Security system. (Nothing - rather disappointingly - about the right to bear arms. And not a word about the spiraling federal debt we were all now on the hook for.) The ceremony then became more stirring. A Faces of America video had a distinctly martial soundtrack. We raised our right hands to swear the oath of allegiance, absolutely renouncing all allegiance to any foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty and swearing to bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law. Then we placed our right hands on our hearts to recite the pledge of allegiance to the national flag and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. It's heady stuff, even in Oakland on a Thursday morning. And then, there he was - the President of the United States himself, much larger than life on the big screen. This country is now your country, Donald Trump told us rather sternly. Our history is now your history. And our traditions are now your traditions. And that wasn't all: You now share the obligation to teach our values to others, to help newcomers assimilate to our way of life. Compare and contrast with the Barack Obama version: Together, we are a nation united not by any one culture, or ethnicity, or ideology . . . The grand finale was God Bless the USA, a country music anthem by Lee Greenwood, made famous following the 9/11 terror attacks on New York and Washington. It too was a call-to-arms. And I'm proud to be an American / Where at least I know I'm free / And I won't forget the men who died / Who gave that right to me." More than half a century of being British has made it hard for me not to cringe just a little at this kind of thing. But this hokum is now my hokum. And this president is now my president, until such time as we, the people, vote in another one. Yes, I picked a fine time to become an American - because it's always a fine time. I'm Niall Ferguson, fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, for Prager University.
Hi everybody welcome to my home, I'm Dennis Prager of Prager you and a whole host of other things But you're probably gonna be best from Prager you a lot of you. I hope listen to my Radio show my syndicated radio show which is on the internet and of course local stations around the United States So it's great to be with you. I just returned from Europe. I spoke at in Brussels at the European Parliament If you'd like to see that Speech it is up at Dennis Prager common, I guess a Prager you to is that correct? I guess it both my speech at the European Parliament Which is tragically and it's a good segue into what I want to open up about and then take your questions Which a fair amount of objection to my speaking, you know, I I'd like to be personal with you. You know, this is really these fireside chats, which I do each week are completely unscripted We don't really know till a few minutes before him even what I'll open with I like it to be as spontaneous as possible as open as possible. Just me to you and then your Questions to me. I Want to tell you something very personal It's really quite Sad, I guess that's the best word that I'm controversial If you look at the body of my work I'm it so it's a lifetime of work it's all about goodness It's really just about making The world better making people better having Husbands and wives get along better Getting children who were alienated from their parents to talk to their parents again When you think of the body of my work teaching the 10 commandments? Why am I controversial It's not a comment about me that I'm controversial it's a comment about those who find me controversial That's that's really what it's all about. I Mean take take an example of a very hot button issue. So I think That marriage should have remained defined as between a man and a woman So let's say you disagree with me and I want to add there are good people who disagree with me There are bad people disagree with me There are good people who agree with me and bad people who agree with me on this subject There are good people all over the place and bad people all over the place. All right acknowledge that But why is that controversial? That has been the definition of marriage through all of recorded history If you could say I'm wrong I I respect that possibility but Why is it controversial let alone hate-filled That's what's so remarkable. That's what's worthy of exploration Barack Obama was against same-sex marriage through at least half of his eight years as president Was he a hater was he controversial? then all of a sudden one day it's declared hate-filled a position that everybody had Through all of history every civilization every nation every religion Maybe its controversial to redefine marriage I mean if you want to be honest - the word controversial that should be controversial right or wrong that's the controversial position not the one that has retained a Fairly good definition for all of recorded history so that's that's and that's I'm taking one of the most controversial positions that I The allegedly controversial positions that I hold But think about everything else. That's why I look when I see all the hate written me or people to think like I do There's no substance to the accusations It's really quite remarkable that That I'm controversial that Prager University is controversial We have for Prager University Courses are given by some of the most distinguished people in the world for former Prime Minister's liberals Democrats Republicans conservatives black white gay Women men young and old Well, what what is the big deal you may not agree? But but why? the hatred directed against us So it can only reflect against the haters. It's it we're not the haters They are the people who hate us are the haters we don't Nobody affiliated with us has has has any hate in him or her? We're out there to to do good just good But that is what it is I'm not complaining I got a great life a Lot of people take what I say. Seriously a lot of you are watching this. I know that But it's still remarkable So it leads me to the issue of censorship that is taking place on the part of the biggest internet sites and And specifically I'm thinking of Google which owns YouTube Google owns YouTube and YouTube has a restricted list Here's the way the restricted list works people who have filters in their homes. They don't want kids or adults for that matter They don't want anybody in the house to have access to pornography and excessive violence, so you can have a filter. It's a safe What does it safe searching or something like that? Just a safety filter? That's fine. I respect that obviously Why would our videos ever be lumped in with pornography by By YouTube, so I'll give you an example. I mean there's a whole list here He here's one I give this is this is lumped with pornography by YouTube So that if you have any filters in your home, you can't see it. You cannot see it No library can see it. No school can see it. That's what the restricted list means The ten commandments what you should know a five minute video that I have given Explaining the 10 commandments Doesn't this tell you a lot about Google and YouTube and Nothing about us that they consider that in the realm of pornography which they do the hatred of of Judeo-christian values is so deep on the part of the left not liberals But the left I always make a distinction and Google and YouTube are leftist not liberal. I wish they were liberal III would respect them tremendously Liberals have always been for free speech leftists have always been against free speech It's an astonishing thing that that that would be the case or How about this to show you how political it is the opposition NU'EST? Carol Swain is a black former Princeton University Vanderbilt University professor Black woman major scholar she gave a course about the Democratic Party Because the Democratic Party was historically the racist party That was the pro-slavery party. The Republican Party was founded in large measure to oppose slavery How many people know that very few so she gave a course on it? Google doesn't want kids to see that or pornography What do you think of that or how's this let's see Bret Stevens Bret Stevens is in never Trumper columnist for The New York Times Should America be the world's policeman you may say yes, you may say no why is on the restricted list. Bye. Bye YouTube And think about who's giving it Minh Why does this not bother anyone of conscience whether you agree with what we say or not? Do you understand? What is happening here? So it's it's really one of the great lies of our time that these are open forums. They're not open forums Google YouTube Facebook Twitter. They're not open forums My god I I can't I mean, I can't believe Arielle Arielle is one of the great thinkers of our time He's black guy is America racist So if a black says America's not racist we Google doesn't want anybody to watch it Isn't that amazing? Or doesn't want any kid or any fit home with filters or any school or any library to watch it to be very precise why a Black is not allowed to say America is a blessing Is that is that some L Not not allowable, I when I was picked up my wife and I were picked up at the airport By car service to take us back home after Europe and The driver was a as I guess. I don't know what the language today is a woman of color As she would say, she's brown. She's from Sri Lanka and It was she was so eloquent in her love of America an appreciation of how it is and how much more racism and ethnic bigotry She found in Sri Lanka and I'm not knocking Sri Lanka a place. I have visited and enjoyed immensely But she said there's no comparison said in my whole life as a brown Woman living in completely white neighborhoods. I have never once experienced racism So was this woman deluded? If we had her give a a preview video on how much she has a non-white Appreciates America. I promise you there's no doubt in my mind YouTube Google would put it on the restricted list god forbid Someone should hear a non-white say that America is a good place now you see it's not about us the sickness the Evil is on the is on their side. Not ours. These are not bad things we say These are good and kind and loving things were saying It's very bad really bad What else is here? Oh Boy his Oh Bret Stevens has another one well New York Times columnist can't stand Trump even even he's banned how Lincoln changed the world in two minutes Doug Dowd's or dudes. I don't remember how printer pronounce his name. I don't understand Lincoln What god forbid people should think well of America's founders. I mean obviously Lincoln's not a founder and wasn't alive in 1776 but and he's one of the Giants of American history If some of them don't even make sense like that one Or how about this? The classical this a classic liberal position don't judge blacks differently given by a brilliant young black woman Says it's racist to judge us differently. We want to be judged by the same standards as everybody else That was the whole message of Martin Luther King jr. It's the whole message of the civil rights movement It's it's it's something beyond belief are people born good by Dennis Prager there that's that's really that's really a worthy of Of being censored you realize that our people born good or as I'm saying we're not born good were not born But we're not born good is very important because we have to make people good So we who are promoting making people good were censored. It's the Google YouTube Fools Who are or suppressing this Their arrogance is beyond belief They're so certain They're right that they could they could shut us down if they want or shut us down to the extent that they can So let's just come out now. We have a video of a woman a high-ranking woman Thanks to Project Veritas a high-ranking woman That at Google Caught on camera saying we're not gonna allow it to happen in 2020. What happened in 2016? We're not going to allow Donald Trump to be re-elected Is that is that Google's job? I thought Google's job was to actually give you honest results when you put in a search But they don't think it is. They're not there to give you honest results there get there to promote their left-wing views Now if they would announce that I'd have no trouble if they would say look. Google is a left-wing organization and have a great day Okay, then they're honest but they claim to Be opined that they're not opened This is trouble every one of you with a conscience, I don't care what your politics are Anyway, I'm not gonna read you all the rest. I mean, it's it's uh, it's at Prager EUCOM and and then we have a whistleblower as well from From Google and And who was mentioned that they're particularly annoyed with Prager you and David Rubin? Dave Rubin is a gay liberal and they want to shut him down like they want to shut us down Yep not amazing I'm sure this Dave Reubens on the Omni censored list I didn't see it but it's hard to believe it wouldn't it is yeah, I would think so He did a very powerful video for Prager you Why I left the left And he's still a liberal and he's still gay If you don't think lockstep with the left they really will suppress you at college or on the internet or in high school This should worry good people That's my message Okay, let me take your questions from all over the world don't forget you can see the Video of my talk at the European Parliament Okay, let's see here, okay, let's begin at the top that's usually the place to begin And Quinten 21 state of Washington as a conservative in a primarily liberal State I wish your state were liberal its leftist. I Have no issue with liberals. I don't agree with them on uncertain matters like specifically the size of government but There's a lot of honor and being a liberal. There's no honor in being a leftist Okay, I lost that I gotta go back again You know why I know why this thing goes. It's still it's got the rotated thing. How's Otto doing by the way? I want to thank all of you writing to Otto Otto was very touched by all your fan mail All of you who asked me about Otto at airports and want you to know that I am touched as well It is theoretically possible. He is America's most famous dog And as I often tell you I am proud to tell you and it's not gone to his head he acts the same now as he did before he was a household name and And it took a lot of upbringing Wife and I worked on his character and were happy to say so far. It's worked Alright Quinton. And while she said is a conservative or primarily liberal state. I feel like I cannot voice my opinions on many issues No kidding. That was exactly what I was just talking about, right? What is the best way to deal with this love the show and Praeger you is one of the best political? YouTube channels out there by the way, we're not old political Were or everything? We've got videos on forgiveness by psychiatrists We have videos on on character building on raising children A lot of what we do is not political. It's about goodness. A lot of it is just history You know, learn it learn about Calvin Coolidge learn about Napoleon Learn about all the British Empire that was room that's on the restricted list Because the author said maybe there's some good things that came from the British Empire which is a fact so just the fact I've been to India four times. I really enjoy visiting India and There would not be in India as we know it if your warrant for the British Empire because It established courts at Apollo that they abolished city of what we've been being burned along with their husband their their their late husband's body live women the widow being burned English that's the that's the most obvious You know how Indians communicate with each other in English? Because there are so many languages that can bend a leak and speak to it through a guy who speaks Urdu It's just it's English English made India as a functioning unit possible That's restricted. You can hear that because the simpletons of the left want you to think Oh Empire all evil Because they can't think in nuances on the left. It's all black and white. Everything is black and white What is the best way to deal with this That you can't do you feel like you can't voice your opinions. The answer is to voice them in as articulate and Calm away as possible there That's the only way to do it and and you just have to be true to yourself to your values if you believe in God true to what you believe God wants from you and in terms of honesty and and do your thing and And if people shun you then it's their loss. I Don't have a better answer than that But it's also that's what I like to help people is to learn how to articulate our values In a way, here's a way here's one thing you might want to do adopt my attitude that you prefer clarity to agreement so that if you're in the discussion with someone Don't try to don't try to change their mind Just say calmly listen, I don't want to change your mind. I don't even want to fight All I want to do is clarify where we differ And that's very helpful. It's fascinatingly Helpful for you to do Rebecca. 22, Vermont. What do you think about let's see. I'll talk about that another time What do you think about AO C's concentration camp comment? so Alexandria Acacio cortes yes concentration camp Even Bill Maher who is a man of the left But actually I would say Bill Maher is liberal left. He he has he has some courageous liberal positions that are not left-wing and To his credit he he had a he had a monologue on on a OCS concentration can't comment and said Come on, everybody knows what we think about when we say concentration camp and America is not running concentration camps at the border Of course, it's the wrong term. This is Bill Maher who said this check it out It's it's a it's a very effective one He said he said You know said Holocaust literally means if concentration camp just literally means concentrating people then Holocaust means a Burnt burnt by fire. That's true. He said well are we gonna have a holocaust barbecue? Nope says that Obviously it has asbestos to specific meaning in people's minds when you say concentration camp But the truth is she doesn't know a thing about the Holocaust I'd be surprised if she could spell it Okay, let's see here, there we go again every time I turn this thing We got it next time we have to remember it's on the rotation thing. We can't have it rotate. Okay next Joelle 19 in our US in Brazil. Hi, Dennison Otto What's Otto doing is he just looking is that his fail? Yeah, uh-uh. Bulldogs have the busiest tongues Perhaps outside of these the world of snakes I mean, they're always out there but the he's busy. All right. Hi, Dennison Otto I've heard you talking about Victor Frankel's book man's search for meaning in an interview and I would love to hear more about your thoughts Regarding the meaning of life. Whoa, that's a big one. And when are you coming to Brazil? We would we truly need your words here. I'm dying to come to Brazil and speak There was an invitation it didn't work out and I got I got to look into it again But I would love to come I would like to go everywhere. Uh What can I say? I wish I had more than 24 hours in the day But I would like to go listen what I I believe that what I what pretty us say what I have to say It's either worthwhile everywhere or isn't worthwhile anywhere. This is not just AmeriCorps en that It's not just using Christians oriented. It's human oriented anyway The meaning of life. Well, I have a lot on the meaning of life It's such a huge issue. Maybe I'll do an opening thing once on that, but I'll tell you this This I will tell you this is cuz I don't like to avoid questions There was something that deeply a lot of things have undermined Meaning in people's lives in the Western world. There is a terrible combination of secularism and So I'll begin with affluence Poor people secular or religious all have meaning in their life and That is get a meal find a place to sleep have some shelter, right? poor people Have a built-in meaning how do I have enough to survive another week? That's very meaningful. I don't wish that type of meaning on anybody but it is it is let's be honest. That's meaning so affluence knocks out that basic problem because None of you watching are worried of whether you will starve to death or have a roof over your head. Okay. I'm assuming that The other receptor ism secularism is knocked out the other another major source of meaning God and religion So when people have no God or religion and people have no Financial meaning in the sense of I gotta get a meal Where are they going to get their meaning from and there's another one that they knocked out and that is that I've spoken about this belief in your country not bad belief good belief Americans believed in America that we which should be a bright shining light right on a hill That's the American ideal to be a good place not perfect place a good place and to be a model to others and in many ways and we have been With all our flaws that we have been the French gave the Statue of Liberty to America not Canada not to itself Not Uruguay to America So what the left is done is it is knocked out all these meanings I Get the chills as an American when when the National anthem of the u.s. Is played. I hope those of you in Brazil get chills when your national anthem is played I hope those of you in in in Romania, I Get chilled. I spoke in Romania last year That's why I'm mentioning it getting could get have chills. When the Romanian national anthem is played. It is a good and healthy To have an emotional positive at reaction To your to your country if your country is a decent place if it's an indecent place as a separate issue So People where are people getting meaning? No god, no religion no nation, if their finances are taken care of whether they get meaning now, I Guess everything is in the career basket God is not a mistake I've talked about that, but I should talk about it again What's our time frame I Thought you were gonna say 28 a built-in clock All right. Ma che in Scarborough where Scarborough did we figure it out? Okay, it sounds it sounds like it's Britain. I don't know Dennis Why did you not start writing your five-part commentary with the first book of the Bible? I started with the second Exodus because it has the Ten Commandments and my belief Which you could see on the preview videos that I gave all the Ten Commandments that that is all basically humanity needs and we would be living heaven on earth if Everybody lived by the Ten Commandments you would need no police you would need no armies Do you know what we could spend think about it for a minute? If we didn't if the countries didn't need to defend themselves Against other countries or build arms to invade other countries like Iran builds arms to do let us say That we didn't have to spend any money on those on those things, you know how much we could spend on cancer research on Alzheimer's research When you think of the hundreds of billions of dollars on weapons? so When I advocate the ten commandments, I don't know why that's controversial So that's why I started with the second and I ask all of you watching I don't ask you much, but I would I would like you to read the rationale Bible. It'll be five volumes to are out I've Genesis and Exodus the first two of the Bible that is wisdom That stuff will teach you about life And it's fascinating and this is a lifelong Work coming to fruition scald the rational Bible. So I guess that's it for a now a Let's see. We got here Norway and Belgium Yeah, I thought it was England right and Georgia not the country the state Massachusetts this is nice unkind It's very touching for me to think I'm sitting in my house talking to people all over the world That's one of the great benefits Obviously of the Internet there are a lot of great benefits Auto auto feels that it's over this the I got the message. He's had enough All right, so again you could you could see my speech to the European Parliament up at the preview and at Dennis Prager comm I come in to your attention the rationale Bible, please watch our videos at Prager use and then tell this old one final word about the about the fireside chats These are timeless They come out every week, but if you watch one, what do we have now about 90 up? 88 yeah, that's called about 90. Yeah 88 qualifies as about 90 and If you watch number 17, it's just as relevant because this is really good stuff about life in a very informal setting and very Accessible so I hope you'll watch it. I hope you'll have others watch it, too Thanks, so until next week from my home to yours Thank you so much for watching Thank you for watching. If you'd like to keep these fireside chats free. Please do by donating to Prager you
There's a book you can read to your children that will make your job as a parent a lot easier. This book will teach them lessons in character, how to distinguish right from wrong; about gratitude, respect and perseverance. And that's in the opening chapters! Parents have been reading this book to their children for a very long time. It's one reason it's a perpetual best-seller. This book, of course, is the Bible, and you don't have to be religious to read it. And your kids don't have to be religious to enjoy it and get a whole lot out of it. Decency, kindness, charity, selflessness and sacrifice - they're all right there. Consider the story of David and Goliath. Nine feet tall, clad in armor, Goliath is the most fearsome warrior of his day. How could he not be? He's nine feet tall, for goodness sake! Who wants to go against a giant like that? No Israelite, that's for sure except for one. A skinny shepherd boy named David. This boy has three things going for him courage, a sling shot and faith that God is with him. As he strides out onto the battlefield to face Goliath in single combat, he holds the future of the Israelite nation, not to mention his own life, in his hands. Wrapped up in all of this tension and drama are valuable lessons that any child can profit from. David refuses to be intimidated by a bully. He's willing to act; to show resolve even in the face of his own self-doubt. His actions paint a portrait of true heroism in the face of true danger. Isn't that the kind of strength we want our children to emulate to be able defend themselves and, later, their families, and their country? Or how about the story of the brothers, Cain and Abel? Abel, the shepherd, looks at his lot and he's filled with gratitude for his blessings. He offers as a gift to God the very best of his flock. Cain, the farmer, is selfish, unsatisfied with what he has, and he offers only a paltry gift of grain. When God favors Abel's present, Cain allows jealousy to overwhelm him. God speaks to Cain and tells him, I know you're feeling angry, but you can overcome those feelings and master them.' Cain doesn't listen, doesn't control his jealousy - and kills Abel. When God asks Cain: Where is Abel your brother? Cain lies and says, I do not know, and then: Am I my brother's keeper? Yes should have been Cain's answer to his own question. We are responsible for ourselves and we have an obligation to others. We all have emotions and passions. But God has given us the tools to master those emotions. And master them we must if we are live a productive and ethical life. Most important of all, life is a gift from God. We have no right to take it away from the innocent. Murder is evil. All these lessons are contained in this one story. The stories of David and Goliath and Cain and Abel are only two examples of the many invaluable lessons the Bible offers to children. Think of a lesson and there's a Bible story to teach it: about family dynamics, friendship, forgiveness, leadership, humility; about what is important and what is not. The Bible also teaches children - more effectively than any book ever - that they are not the center of the universe. They are accountable to their parents and to God. Children who internalize this lesson are much more likely to be kinder and more mindful of how they behave than those who do not. The Bible discourages narcissism. Of course, the Bible is not merely a children's book; it's a library of wisdom for everyone. Here's how Abraham Lincoln, who was not a church-goer, but who was steeped in the Bible, described it. In regard to this Great book . . . it is the best gift God has given to man. But for it we could not know right from wrong. And all things most desirable for man's welfare . . . are to be found portrayed in it. As Lincoln suggests the Bible is the moral foundation on which Western Civilization is built and a point of shared reference. Up until the 1960's, you could cite a Bible story and most people knew exactly what you were talking about. Everyone from Shakespeare to Dickens to Franklin Roosevelt made great use of Bible stories to communicate their themes. We're losing that connection. And that is a terrible shame. And a profound cultural loss. If you don't have some Biblical literacy, you can't fully appreciate the powerful words of Martin Luther King, for example. Only if you know the story of Moses, can you fully appreciate King's poetic vision of having seen the promised land. Of the Bible, Yale theologian George Lindbeck famously said, there was a time when every educated person, no matter how professedly unbelieving or secular, knew the actual text from Genesis to Revelation. Our goal should be to get back to that kind of Biblical literacy. And it starts with our children. Your children. Read them a Bible story tonight. Who knows? You might learn a few things, too. I'm Johnnie Moore for Prager University.
In the 1958 movie, The Blob, starring a young Steve McQueen, a giant, expanding mass - a blob - threatens to destroy an entire town and everyone in it. It keeps growing and growing, and no one can stop it. The United States debt is like that blob. Unlike the fictional blob, it threatens to destroy more than an entire town; it threatens the entire nation. Where is Steve McQueen when you need him? Here are some numbers. The national debt currently stands at $22 trillion dollars. That's trillion - with a T.' Ten years ago, it was $10 trillion dollars. Ten years from now, it's projected to be $34 trillion. The interest payment on our debt is currently $300 billion dollars per year, heading towards a projected $1 trillion dollars within a decade. At that point, a fifth of all federal taxes will go towards the interest on the debt, not education, infrastructure, and defense - you know, the stuff government is supposed to do. And that's with historically low interest rates. Imagine if those rates normalized. Well, maybe you don't want to imagine it because that picture is very dark. In a better world, voters would be marching on Washington, demanding that our politicians dig us out of this hole before we're buried in it. In the real world almost no one cares. But we should care. And any thinking person, left or right, understands why. No individual and no nation can accumulate debt indefinitely. Europe was able to bail out Greece with some loans a few years ago. But Greece is a small country. If the US goes boom,' there's going to be no one to bail us out. So what's driving the debt? And, more importantly, how do we drive ourselves out of it? The debt has been growing for decades. It got supercharged by the 2008 recession. Revenues fell while spending soared. Under President Obama, the debt doubled from $10 trillion dollars to $20 trillion. In the first two years of the Trump Administration, we've added another $2 trillion dollars. So what are we to do? First, we need to identify the primary source of the problem. It's pretty basic. You can talk about defense spending, welfare spending, or bloated budgets all you want, but it really comes down to two programs: Social Security and Medicare. Unless we get a handle on these monsters, the debt blob will continue to expand until it overwhelms us. According to data from the Congressional Budget Office, these two programs alone face a $100 trillion-dollar shortfall over the next three decades. How is that possible? Well, for starters, you've got 74 million Baby Boomers rolling into retirement age - 10,000 a day. On top of that, Medicare recipients typically receive benefits that are triple the size of what they paid into the system. Without some serious adjustments, these programs are going to fail. This is not the fault of retirees. It is simple demographics and math. Paying all promised benefits would require either raising the payroll tax from its current 15.3% to 33% or imposing a 34% national sales tax. No - squeezing the rich, slashing defense, or eliminating welfare won't come close to paying the bill. Neither will any plausible level of economic growth. The 100 trillion-dollar hole is too big. So let's talk fairness. If Mom and Dad can't make the mortgage payment, they don't tell the kids to get full-time jobs to make up the shortfall. They move to a different house that matches their budget. Likewise, when America promises senior citizens benefits far exceeding what they paid into the system, we should not tell young working families that their taxes must be doubled or tripled. We should instead pare back those benefits to an affordable level. That's only fair and sensible, right? But when it comes to the debt, neither of these qualities seems to figure in. So what can we can do? More to the point, what can you do? First, be sure to save for your own retirement. Do not overly depend on a government that has promised more than it can possibly pay out to take care of you. Second, tell Washington to get a spine and deal with Social Security and Medicare. People live a lot longer than they did when Social Security was first conceived in 1935. We need to gradually raise the Social Security eligibility age to reflect that. It's now 66. We need to get it to 68, and then 70. That's pretty straightforward. Medicare is trickier. But a good solution already exists, amazingly within the Medicare system- the prescription drug program. Almost unprecedented among government programs, this one has come in below initial projected costs. Why? Because insurance companies have to compete for seniors' prescription drug business. So let's give seniors more options to shop around for the Medicare plans they want. More choice and competition would stabilize costs, and give us a fighting chance to keep Medicare solvent. So are any of these ideas being seriously discussed in the halls of government? We all know the answer to that question. Here comes The Blob. I'm Brian Riedl, Senior Fellow at the Manhattan Institute, for Prager University.
 Hi everybody, I'm Dennis Prager, and this is my house this is my fireside this is my dog Otto, who is perhaps America's most famous dog at this point And I've told you in the past, I'm gonna say it low say doesn't hear it has not gone through his head It's a big deal we raise our dogs with the concept of humility And it's worked so far with Otto What cracks me up is when people meet me at airports and ask how he is That's, like I have to admit it's not what I expected in life How is your bulldog? It's great by the way, don't don't hesitate to do so It's just life is funny and you have to laugh with these unexpected funnies Anyway, this is a chance every week to just talk to you unscripted, as I always point out I have papers for a reason, I'm gonna be reading from a news item in my opening comments So normally I open up with a concept or an idea, thought I would say deliberate about it, yeah that's, that's right and then I take your questions So it's a lot of fun for me and hopefully for you but this is very good stuff Incidentally that reminds me to remind you none, almost none of these really none of these are dated If you watch one This is, I don't know, episode like 80, is it, is that right (85) 85. Wow, it's a lot And if you watch number 12, it'll be just as relevant And, I tell you, I those of you who are parents you show these fireside chats to your kids like you do the PragerU videos It will have a big impact It's certainly meant to have a big impact And, obviously it's meant to have an impact on adults too I've never found it relevant to speak differently to young people than to old people Never And I started speaking in my 20s I spoke the same to kids that is my age group As I did to people twice-three times my age And right now I speak to people 1/3 my age the same as I speak to people my age and, and for that matter, older I don't understand why one wouldn't If you're old enough to understand what I'm saying, then that's all that matters Ok, anyway, so I got a very very big topic that I want to talk to you about today This was an article in Market Watch on the internet very recently And here it is: young peop.. This is the headline Young people have climate, blame climate change for their small 401(k) balances That's savings account balances essentially retirement plans and so on Now, the the first thing you could say is, it's not really true People may blame climate change, you know Why would I save, I don't have a future I'll be flooded out or boiled to death But they might just be using that as an excuse When in fact they, they just don't want to save which is very common for young people I didn't, I didn't have any such plan for a long time in my life I regret it terribly We should teach economic literacy like we teach language Actually, we don't teach language either, so Like we teach secondhand smoke Maybe that would be a good analogy So listen to this, this is the article Lori Rodriguez, a 27-year-old communications professional in New York City is not saving for retirement And it isn't necessarily because she can't afford to It's because she doesn't expect it to matter Like many people her age, Rodriguez believes climate change will have catastrophic effects on our planet Some 88% of millennials accept that climate change is happening and 69% say it will impact them in their lifetimes Engulfed in a constant barrage of depressing new stories many young people are skeptical about saving for an uncertain future Article continues Millennials are also said to suffer from "eco-", or "eco-anxiety" According to a 2018 report from the American Psychological Association with 72% saying their emotional well-being is affected by the inevitability of climate change And then there is another one More on this article Rodriguez, the 27-year-old quoted in the beginning, says she has grown increasingly wary of capitalism and has become convinced we are witnessing its final stages She is not alone the number of millennials who view capitalism positively fell from 68% in 2010 to just 45% in 2017 There's another one Financial Psychology Institute's professor Klontz says While he considers climate change concerns valid some millennials may be using them as an excuse not to save Setting aside money for the future rather than using it in the moment is fundamentally difficult for human beings That's very true Nevertheless, the other stuff may be true too Many people are already making major adjustments to traditional life plans to account for future climate change effects Dan Sheehan, a 28-year-old writer in Los Angeles, says he has chosen not to have children or a family a decision that has also contributed to his not saving for retirement Okay Some 30% of people who have chosen not to have children have done so due to climate concerns according to a 2018 report by the New York Times Okay, anyway, it goes on like that Right, so Oh, and then finally Most non-saving millennials say financial constraints are the top reason In other words, climate change may be second to financial restraint The average student loan debt is $37,172, according to The Wall Street Journal So I want to address this to you, especially to you millennials I, I am angry at this generation of adults for scaring you about this stuff the way they have I want to read to you You may say, well, why wouldn't they, it's scary So just listen to this One more thing to read to you, I very rarely read to you but I have no choice in this case Listen to this This is from 1989 Associated Press, AP One of the largest, and, perhaps, international news gathering service we have UN predicts disaster of global warming not checked This is June 1989, 11, so 30 years ago 30 years, almost exactly A senior UN environmental official says entire nations could be wiped off the face of the earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000 We passed 2000 by 19 years Coastal flooding and crop failures would create an exodus of "eco-refugees" threatening political chaos, said Noel Brown, director of the New York office of the UN environmental program He said governments have a 10-year window of opportunity to solve the greenhouse effect before it goes beyond human control Ocean levels will rise by up to 3 feet Enough to cover the Maldives and other flat island nations, Brown told The Associated Press So wait a minute, we had 10 years in 1989, it's 1999, it's 20 years ago But none of this has happened The oceans have not risen like this The Maldives are doing fine I was just there It's the best snorkeling in the world by the way, in case you're into snorkeling Those are islands right off the southwest coast of India, I've been there twice And, they're doing great So, I want you to understand These scary things, these apocalyptic notices have been given for 30-40 years But none of them have come to pass People are buying seashore real estate in the United States Why? Why isn't everybody who has, who has a home on any shore Florida, California, or anywhere else Why aren't they selling their property while they can get a great price for their house They say they believe it but they don't act on it By the way the whole movement is, I don't believe is believable Because they don't, they're not for nuclear power You really think the world will be destroyed in 10 years, 20 years, 30 years because of carbon emissions? Then there's a completely non carbon-based energy source called nuclear power A staggeringly safe, why don't you advocate it? That's, that proves to me they don't believe what they say If, if you're drowning and somebody threw you a life buoy that could save your life Would you say, well, I heard that some of these life buoys have germs You.., then we wouldn't believe you thought you were drowning, would we? We have a life buoy, if you believe we're drowning It's called nuclear power That works 40% of Sweden is powered by nuclear power I feel for you if you're a millennial who's been scared by this, I do And I am so angry at my generation and and the generation after me that has raised you Man, look, they believe it too I guess But it's, I'm not saying that there is no global warming I'm not saying that at all I'm saying that the hysteria is hysteria That's all And then the other thing that this generation has done to you specifically the left of the adults, conservative adults haven't done this is this disgusting student debt You're, the average person watching this, is $37,000 in debt For what? For what? To be told that there's no such thing as male and female? To be told that there's white privilege? To be told that you can't wear a Halloween costume if it's not your culture? It's angering, I'm sorry to get angry, I'm angry on your behalf You've been screwed by my generation, okay Simple as that And by the next generation It is, it is absolutely It's like, it's a farce The debt you have been put into for no good reason Harvard has, I don't know how many Could you take a look quickly, what is the endowment of Harvard University How many bill.., how many tens of billions, or is it hundreds of billions, I don't know, of dollars What are they doing with it? What are they, what are they doing in with all the, how much, 38 billion dollars It's a joke Now Harvard's the richest, but, but they all have Nearly all of them have these gigantic endowments And you know how many people they hire as deans of diversity who teach nothing Who just teach you how to be angry And separate black graduations at 75 different colleges of the country including Harvard and Stanford Separate black dorms That's what, that's what the white racists in the South wanted in the 50s Separate dorms Now the left wants it, and the universities are all on the left God, have you been, I, I, I hate to use the language because it's a little vulgar You've been screwed Let me tell you And history will record that And not getting married, you're not.. 30% of you won't get married because you think the world is gonna be destroyed Anyway, what kind of reason is that not to get married? That's a little goofy to me, I have to say You don't want a partner while you drown? I mean, give me a break I mean, this like is pathetic Yeah, what I think, I'm a Jew and when I think of the I'm old enough to remember Holocaust survivors People who went through the the Nazi death camps and somehow survived They made families the first thing they did when they were liberated from hell, real hell not imaginary hell was to get married and have children, to affirm life And you're not? Sick, the whole thing is so sick This is very angering stuff Just remember the 1989 report We have 10 years, that was 1999 What happened since then? Even the polar bears are doing well That's right, the polar bears are doing well There's more ice in Antarctica, there may be less icing in the Arctic, but there's more ice in Antarctica I have lived through so many left-wing hysterias in my lifetime They're all lies, they all turn out to be lies In my book, "Think..", not "Think a Second Time", it was one of my books, but it's not in that one It's in my book "Still The Best Hope" I list eleven left-wing hysterias that took over the society just like global warming is taking over the society And by the way why did they change it to climate change? Why did they change the name from global warming to climate change? Maybe because it wasn't warming in so many places This is, you know that this is one of the coldest Mays in the history of Los Angeles, where I live I looked it up It's one of the coldest since the 19th century, when they started recording temperatures in Southern California But that doesn't count I guess And now every time, any time.. There was actually a lull in hurricanes, in devastating hurricanes Did you know that? There was a lull I knew it, it's always reported, but not widely And every time there's a hurricane now You know, there's hurricanes, you know There's Sandy, there's the storm in New Jersey and the Northeast Oh, climate change What, we didn't have storms before this? It's.. Look, if you want an excuse not to save money, go right ahead But you're gonna be around for many years They're gonna keep delaying the apocalypse That's they did now We were told in 89 we got 10 years Nothing happened That's right More and more people have been uplifted from poverty thanks to the capitalism that half of you reject Only thanks to capitalism Socialism never lifted anybody out of poverty It has increased poverty That's all it does because it doesn't create wealth Only capitalism creates wealth Did you learn that at your economics class at whatever college you're in or whatever high school you're in? You should've learned that in fifth grade The only system that has ever lifted people in any number from poverty has been capitalism Socialism spends the money that capitalism creates That's the way it works So you want socialism - good luck See how it's worked elsewhere Watch our video by the way You know, people say, oh, we want to be socialists like the Nordic countries We have a Danish scholar, the guy from Denmark gives a video, 5 minutes Showing you how Denmark is not a socialist country You might want to watch it In fact, whether you want to or not - you should watch it Because never do what you want It's usually a bad idea Do what you should do - that's a great idea Maybe I'll do a video on Wants vs. Shoulds You'll be a happier person if you do shoulds Yeah, of course you should do certain things that you want, obviously But not the big stuff The big stuff is a bunch of shoulds Okay, I'm sorry, I'm sorry to bring you the bad news that there's good news Because that's bad news that there's good news All right, questions to me Ann, 44, Hillsboro, Oregon "Behind every great man is a great woman", quote unquote Would you ever consider having your wife as a guest on your show I would love to have my wife as a guest on my show And then you would see how true this is And if you, this assuming you assume I'm a great man I'm not assuming that, but that's that's why you wrote this But whatever you think of me positively you would, it would double, doubly reinforce this because she is a great woman However she does not yearn to do things public She, in fact she yearns not to Which is too bad, because she's very poised and articulate So I'll try, I'll tell her they want her in Hillsboro, Oregon (and she says hi) And she says hi, yeah, I read another question, you know David, 60-something, Minneapolis Dennis, how would you define love? Seems undefinable, even though we know it is real when we sense it By the way, you should know about the questions I see them five minutes before I do this Only to make sure that there aren't any I don't want to because they're irrelevant or uninteresting or whatever, I've dealt with it a lot So, these are not planned answers They're just, I've only planned to be able to take the question So what is this, how would I define love? Are you ready? There are two answers to that: feeling and action You can't define the feeling What am I going to say, an extremely positive emotional response to someone or something? Because after all we say Not only do I, I love my partner, I love my wife I love my husband, I love my children, I love my parents, I love my friends But I love my dogs, people, right I love my car, I love my house And that's perfectly reasonable, by the way So love is simply an intense feeling, an intensely positive feeling But more important is its own, its behavior If you say you love somebody, and you don't act loving - you don't love them It's, it's, it's irrelevant Let's put it that way I know, I know if you love me by how you treat me That's what everybody should say to anybody who says they love them How do you treat them And, you know, I'm writing a five volume commentary on the first five books of the Bible Where one of the Boss books contains "Love your neighbor as yourself" And because I know Hebrew grammar very very well Especially biblical grammar I could, I will show when that volume comes out, that's in the Book of Leviticus, the third of the five books It's, it doesn't say "Love your neighbor as yourself" It says "Love to your neighbor as yourself" So it implies in the Hebrew that it's an action Treat your neighbor as well as you treat yourself, in effect That's what it means So, I will also, maybe, I might do Did I do one of these fireside chats on unconditional love? I know I've mentioned it, but I don't know if I did a whole (not yet) Not yet? Right That - I'm not a fan of unconditional love, at all I don't believe, unconditional means no matter how you evilly evilly you behave, I still love you I don't want to separate love from morality I think it's dangerous Anything separated from morality is dangerous Why should love be? But that's another topic for another time Okay Wayne, 87 All right, I want every age group to watch In Michigan Dennis, I keep hearing a new word "woke" Could you define it for me? So I was thinking about this "woke" By the way that's amazing how new terms become part of the language so rapidly "Woke" One year ago I don't think it was, it was even used "Woke" "Woke" apparently means that you are in tune with what the left thinks you should be in tune with I think that's the definition It's like the definition of politically correct Or, I should say, politically incorrect Anything that offends the left Right - there's no political incorrectness with regard to offending the right That doesn't exist It's like there are terms for Jew hatred, for Islamic hatred, black hatred But there's no term for Christian hatred Isn't that amazing? The only group on Earth that has nobody hating them They've been wiped out in the Middle East, but nobody's hating them It's really awesome But the left, the left controls our language Read Orwell, I mean it's exactly out of 1984 And, so "woke" is another's.. So "woke" means you're hypersensitive to, for example, the transgendered Then you're "woke" So that if you think that transgender females In other words male bodies Possessors of male bodies who believe that they are female That's fine, I'm not arguing with that, the existence of such people But I don't believe they should be able to race in races against high-school girls As they do in Connecticut And then they win all the races And set records and it counts That's not fair They have the advantage of a male body That's just not fair But I'm not "woke", that's it I hope Wayne that that helps You are speaking to a non-"woke" person That's right Which means I think clearly That's what "non-woke" means "Woke" means do not think clearly Next Ethan, 20, Las Vegas Hello, Mr. Prager, or is Mr. Prager your father? Actually, he was my father, may he rest in peace And, you can call me Dennis, but you can call me Mr. Prager too Kids should call me Mr. Prager Not because I care, I don't care But because kids should call adults Mr. Ms. Miss Mrs., or whatever term for an adult Professor, Rabbi, Father, Pastor That's what they should do That's, that's correct I'm always impressed when parents introduce their little kids to me And they go, so, Samantha, this is Mr. Prager That's correct, that is what you do But at 20, it's your call I'm totally happy either way I wouldn't say you have to call me Dennis I'm not embarrassed about being an adult A lot of adults from my generation wanted to stay children There are a lot of Peter Pans walking around You who are young don't know this But I did know this when I was young You don't become an adult based on your birthday You become an adult based on a decision to become an adult You have no idea how many children there are my age They tend to work in Hollywood But, not only there Robert DeNiro is a child That's it He's an old buddy, but he's a child They, these people are There are great numbers of them, unfortunately Anyway, so yes, that's the Mr. Prager part My father was an optometrist and is trying to write a book on his views of the world and society being in the medical field he's well aware of the government's overreach As someone who has had massive success with his books I wanted to know if you had any tips I could pass on to him P.S. I'm writing this while watching episode 79 about the Srilanka tax Episode 79 P.P.S. Very good that you know P.P.S. It's impressive Post PostScript My dad is a fan of you, actually it should be a fan of yours I think It's okay And may see this as a belated birthday surprise Happy Birthday dad of Ethan in Vegas Okay, so, very quickly, off the top of my head One thing you should do if you write a book What is it the buddy wants to write He wants to write, does it say an autobiography? Views on the world, okay You should get an editor It is amazing to me how many people think that because they know how to make sentences, they can write Writing is a skill I have editors and I've been writing all of my life and I write well But I have plenty of editors and I love being edited, I love it So if you don't get an editor, it means you're not serious.. you're serious about your thoughts but you're not serious about an excellent book they're not the same thing And, ideally, if, you know, if it's a really worthy book then you can get it published by a real publisher I get, you have no idea how many books I get in the mail including books people publish on their own, and I respect them for doing it But I don't know that it's legit if it has no publisher It, at least, a publisher publishes it They're putting their money into the belief that this book may appeal to more than family and friends By the way, you should write a book for family and friends I am totally for this I think it's a beautiful important thing to write a book and hand it down to the next generation I salute your father for wanting to do this But also everybody has to ask another question Unless they're writing their autobiography, which I think everybody should That, by definition, is unique But if your dad writes about his views on the world Will they, will they add to what has already been written If he's saying what has already been said many times, not many people obviously will gravitate to reading it I know, a guideline in my life has been, I will only write what hasn't been written Why would I want to duplicate the efforts? You know why Prager University exists? Because nothing like it existed If there was something like it, I wouldn't have bothered Takes a lot of time and effort Why would I want to duplicate what others are doing? If I don't have something unique or a unique way of saying it - why say it But I hope he writes his autobiography and passes that down My dad wrote his autobiography I think you could see it at MaxPrager.com And it's actually quite good Took me years to convince my father to write an autobiography and he was thrilled and then he had it beautifully printed in hardback And, but in the meantime it is I believe on the web I think everybody should write an autobiography That I do, that I do believe What's our timing? (29) You wanna have a built-in clock or what Should I take one more or what? (yes) Julianne, 18, in London Hi, Dennis. I'm about to finish high school, and would like to take a gap year before going to university Do you have any advice or ideas about what I should do? You should definitely take a year before university You're gonna live a long time probably What's the rush I have said this my whole life Take a year off at least after high school By the way, the more mature you are when you go to college or Uni, as you call it in Britain I know, cause I attended a year at University, at University of Leeds So, I tell people - the more mature you are the more you'll get out of college And the less likely you are to be indoctrinated by professors Professors, for the most part, there are always exceptions indoctrinate rather than educate, especially in talk about the social sciences There's, I have proof They go crazy if you record what they say in class Now, why is that? Why aren't they proud of what they're saying in class? I taught at College in the United States at Brooklyn College for a couple of years Kids then asked me, can we record your classes? And I remember saying, but why not? What, I'm.., if I'm prepared to say this to a class here, I'm prepared for the world to hear it What do I care? I hope you record it I'm proud of what I'm saying - they're not They know they're indoctrinating - I knew I was educating So I wanted people to get what we called then tapes of what I said All these teachers who oppose recording And they ferociously opposed it, all these leftist teachers, which is almost redundant It's because they know, that if other adults can hear what they say, they will show what nonsense was told to kids who believe it It's easy to fool a 19-year-old, it's tougher to fool a 49-year-old Okay, on that happy note, I hope you've enjoyed.. Otto's just started snoring, is that right? Yeah, I really do put him to sleep It's a humbling thing to have Otto as a dog, but it's good And I just want to remind you, that my way of sharing the life's lessons is through my Bible Commentary called "The Rational Bible" I hope you get it, it's, nobody writes Bible commentaries, i often say, to get wealthy This is, this is my way of sharing the greatest book ever written with as many human beings as possible Anyway, enjoy, I'll see you next week and thank you for being with me And don't forget to send questions Where do they send them to, just (PragerU.com) to PragerU.com Okay, thanks for being with me, bye Thank you for watching If you'd like to keep these fireside chats free, please do by donating to PragerU
Do you like being able to speak your mind freely or practice whatever religion you want? People in America take these rights for granted, but these rights only exist because of the First Amendment in the Bill of Rights. The First Amendment states, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peacefully [sic] to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. America is the most free and most prosperous country in the world. But why is America different and why should we preserve these values? Let's take a look. One: The First Amendment protects the free exercise of religion. If you are a Muslim, a Christian, an atheist, you can freely practice your beliefs in America. The founders did not believe that religion should be divorced from politics, but they prohibited the government from establishing a national church. You see, Liberty can only be kept if Americans remain a good and moral people, and the Constitution promotes the free exercise of religion and doesn't eliminate religion. Two: Freedom of speech is one of the most important rights in our Constitution. It allows Americans to speak their opinions without fear of punishment or regulation. This means the First Amendment not only protects speech that is widely accepted; it also protects speech that isn't popular. In fact, freedom of speech would be meaningless if it only protected speech that we all liked. Three: I'm sure you've heard all about fake news in the media recently, but what if that fake news was coming directly from your government? This is why we have a free and independent press. The press searches for truth and promotes virtue and unity. The press is also a check on the government and helps to advance American values. Four: the First Amendment also protects the right for people to gather peacefully. It guarantees the right for citizens to petition the government to protest or give an opinion on an issue. So all these people you see marching in the streets with picket signs for God knows what are only able to do so because of the First Amendment. America is a country where citizens can practice their faiths and speak and gather freely without government intervention These freedoms, guaranteed under the First Amendment, are critical, and we must preserve them at any cost. I'm Will Witt. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you want to see us continue to make videos on every amendment in the Bill of Rights, and answer other civics questions, please consider making a tax-deductible donation to PragerU today.
Who's the first woman appointed to the Supreme Court? My guess is that most Americans would answer: Ruth Bader Ginsburg. She's so famous now that she is often referred to just by her initials - RBG. Elevated to the high court by President Bill Clinton in 1993, the left-leaning Justice Ginsburg was the subject of not one, but two movies in 2018 alone. But she isn't the first female Supreme Court justice. She's the second. The first doesn't have a movie named after her. That's because Sandra Day O'Connor was appointed by a Republican president, Ronald Reagan. We hear a lot about the year of the woman, the women's march, and the war against women. But if the major media - the New York Times, the Washington Post, CNN, CBS and others - were more interested in accuracy than advocacy, it would be that they are promoting the year of leftist woman or the leftist women's march. The major media like to pretend that all women think alike and that conservative women are just the exception that proves the rule. But according to a 2018 Pew Research study, about a third of women are Democrats; a little less than a third are Republican; and a little more than a third are independents. So if there are all these conservative women around, how does the media make it seem like they barely exist? They use three strategies. The first is Omission: If you don't see something, you don't have to deal with it. Open up a glossy magazine. Every liberal woman is glamorized. Stylishly dressed, beautifully photographed, their personal stories are almost always an inspirational version of Joan of Arc: they have overcome overwhelming obstacles to make the world a more compassionate and tolerant place. Glamour magazine recognized eleven Democrat women among their 2018 Women of the Year. No Republican made the cut. First Lady Michelle Obama was on the cover of Vogue three times. First Lady and former fashion model Melania Trump? So far, not once. Every now and again, the major media will do a story about a female conservative to balance things out. But, let's be honest, it's not balance - it's tokenism. The second strategy the media uses to diminish conservative women is Mocking: Making fun of a woman's appearance discounts what she says. You would think the major media would resist this kind of objectification. But they don't. Not if the target is a conservative woman. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, and Kellyanne Conway, the first woman to run a winning presidential campaign, are routinely belittled for their hair, their eye makeup, or their weight. Their significant accomplishments, in contrast, are rarely acknowledged. Why? Because the media doesn't like their boss. And it treats women who work for him as traitors to their sex. The third strategy the media uses to demean conservative women is Labeling: Using stereotypes precludes there being a valid reason for conservative women to hold the positions they do. The major media simply can't accept that conservatives have serious and important reasons for their beliefs. So they have to come up with answers to explain this seeming anomaly to themselves: these women must be racist or self-hating or just weak-minded. Here's how Barbra Streisand put it to the Daily Mail in England: A lot of women vote the way their husbands vote; they don't believe enough in their own thoughts. Labeling, like the strategies of mocking or omission, is just another way to display contempt and demonize conservative women. Its purpose is to persuade you to not treat those being labeled with respect, to ignore their ideas, and to even avoid associating with them. Not surprisingly, the vilification that results discourages a lot of conservative-leaning women from running for political office. Or even from speaking up. Who needs that grief? It takes a strong person to swim against the media tide. But here's the thing about swimming against the tide: it makes you stronger. Maybe that's why Nikki Haley can stand up in the UN and tell the truth. Or why Candace Owens can question the devotion to progressive policies that have so hurt blacks. Or Ayaan Hirsi Ali can take on the cause of truly oppressed women: those living in radical Islamist societies. We need these voices - and more like them. That's why it's so important to encourage a more respectful, inclusive debate. We should want everyone at the table - both sides of the political spectrum - listening with civility. That way we can be better informed and make better decisions. So if you hold conservative views, you have a particularly important role to play. You need to speak out - to your friends, your family, and your co-workers. Let them hear your thinking. And then let them make up their own minds. The media may pretend you don't exist; they may even mock or label you. They want to intimidate you into silence. That's not fair, and that's not right. Don't let them. I'm Heather Higgins, chairman of Independent Women's Forum, for Prager University.
The year is 1984. One company - Microsoft - dominates the computer world. It's their way or the highway. Conform or die. This snapshot in time was perfectly captured in one of the most famous commercials in TV history. Set in a gray, dystopian future, row after row of men stare blankly at a giant screen from which Big Brother - the all-powerful leader from George Orwell's classic novel 1984 - addresses them. Suddenly, riot police burst into the hall, chasing a beautiful, blonde woman in a white shirt and red shorts. Before they can grab her, she hurls a sledgehammer into the screen, shattering Big Brother and his grip on the masses. The narrator informs us that Apple's breakthrough product, the Macintosh computer, will be the device that sets us all free. Looking back, Apple largely lived up to its promise. A new wave of companies, each in its own way, followed the example set by Apple's legendary CEO, Steve Jobs. Google gave us instant access to vast amounts of information. Facebook gave us a new way to connect with friends, family, and the world. Twitter brought this world to us in real time. And YouTube allowed anyone with a smartphone to become a virtual broadcast network unto themselves. It was glorious and empowering. But that was yesterday. Today, it's 1984 all over again. Big Brother is back - with an important twist. Our former liberators now want to be our masters. Apple, Google, YouTube, Facebook and Twitter, the giants of social media, are demanding conformity to their values. It's their way or the highway. Conform or die. This image is perfectly captured not by an ad, but by this recent real-life scene: Row after row of men and women stare up at Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, as he makes a presentation - ironically - beforea civil rights group. We only have one message for those who seek to push hate, division, and violence: You have no place on our platforms, Cook tells his audience. You have no home here. Hate? Division? According to whom? The answer is obvious: according to Apple, Google, YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter. They are becoming the Big Brother Orwell foresaw. Conform or die. Cook's ideas are exactly the same as his fellow chief executives at Google, YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter. Disagree with Big Brother on, say, politics, or morality, and Big Brother will shut you up by shutting you down. And what is it that Big Brother doesn't like? Well, Tim Cook, said it: anything that doesn't conform to his left-wing worldview. The examples are numerous and growing. Megan Murphy, a Canadian feminist, is permanently banned from Twitter for refusing to refer to the transgendered by their preferred pronoun, and for writing women aren't men. Google, Facebook and Twitter all at various times refused to carry political ads from Tennessee Republican candidate Marsha Blackburn, promoting her conservative views. She's hardly the only one this has happened to. And, as many of you know, YouTube continues to restrict over 100 of PragerU's videos, finding them inappropriate for children. These include titles like, Why Did America Fight the Korean War? Broad-based studies by the American Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology and by Northwestern University have confirmed what these examples clearly suggest: bias against conservatives at Google and other Big Tech sites. And this is the bias we can plainly see. What we don't see, what Big Brother hides from us - what is referred to as shadow banning - maybe be even more pernicious. If you're on the left, maybe you're okay with this. But if you're not on the left, or even if you are and you revere the First Amendment, you should be concerned. Very concerned. We are advancing swiftly toward an Orwellian, 1984 world of stifling, one-way-of-thinking conformity. This time, it's not a fictional story. It's real. What's the solution? Simply return to the open market of ideas that served Big Tech so well for so long. Stop the censorship and let people make up their own minds. Otherwise America - and the rest of what has been known as the Free World - will cease to be free. That's how serious the Big Tech threat is. I'm Brent Bozell, founder of the Media Research Center, for Prager University.
[music] What's up guys, this is Will Witt with PragerU, joined by Isabel in PragerForce and Tiana in PragerForce, here giving out free plastic straws in Santa Barbara, where they banned plastic straws. We're gonna see what people's reactions are to it. Are you guys for against the plastic straw ban? -- Against. -- Against? -- We are for the ban, against the plastic straws. [Will] -- You want one? [Will] -- We're giving away free water and plastic straws, would you guys like some? [laughing] -- We're okay, thanks. [Will] -- They were banned here in Santa Barbara. -- Wait, plastic straws? -- Yes. -- Oh yeah, then no, I don't want plastic straws. [Will and Isabelle] -- Why not? [Man] -- If I Put a little plastic on me, you know what comes a little later? ...with a little bit of stimulus, electricity?: cancer. [Woman] -- Wait, why are we using plastic straws? -- Because- -- Aren't these...aren't these like recyclable, like no- -- You can recycle them. Yeah, but Santa Barbara banned plastic straws, so we are fighting against that and giving them away for free. [man] -- So that's why, in the state of California, my first act as governor, I make plastic totally illegal. I'm not playin'. [eerie music] -- Hey, I uh...hear you can hook me up? -- How many you want? -- Three. [eerie music] [woman] -- Why are you guys fighting against them? -- Because the ban is them, the government trying to virtue signal, it actually hurts businesses, forcing them to... To make products that they can't afford. -- I'm not for hurting turtles, though. -- Right, but it actually doesn't do nearly as bad as you think. That study about it, that came out about plastic straws was made up by a nine-year-old. ...about the 500 million--whatever plastic straws. ...and that's what they ran on, to make this legislation in Santa Barbara -- Oh. -- A nine-year-old. [man] -- It's in the-the-the-the nostril of the dolphin, right. And it tries, you know, to get it out. His snorkel goes [SNNRK!] You know? Whoa, I'm sorry...did I...? Oh, I got water on you-- -- Yes, it's okay. [man] -- I love plastic straws. ...horrible for the environment. But... -- They're not as bad as you think. They're not nearly as bad as you think, the studies are wrong. You have 1% of the world's plastic in the ocean is from America, and then 1% of that is from plastic straws. 1% of the world's ocean plastic is from America. -- One percent??? [Isabelle] -- 1% of that comes from plastic straws. -- Are you f***ing serious? -- It's like such a minuscule amount that actually goes in, of course a picture with a turtle with a straw in its eye is incredibly sad, we hate that, but that is a far anomaly. [woman] -- I really just want a water. [laughs] -- That's okay, that's okay, but it's even better in a straw, right? -- It is better with a straw. [man] -- So we're freeing the plastic straws... -- It's freeing the plastic straw. -- I support this, nice. -- Yes, my man! -- Take a water, my friend. -- You want a water? -- Cool, thanks! -- What do you think about plastic straws, Isabel? -- I enjoy plastic straws...because they allow me to drink beverages without getting straw pieces in my mouth -- But what about the- the dying turtles and fish? -- Growing up in Colorado, as a landlocked state, it's pretty unlikely my plastic straw will reach the mouth of a turtle. -- They're banned here. -- What do you think about the plastic straw ban? -- It's bulls**t, like most things that liberals do. [Will and Isabelle laugh] [Will] -- That's exactly right. -- They're not happy if they're not telling us what to do, or taxing us not to do it. -- You wanna take some for the road? [woman] -- Just in case, you never know. [Will] - Never know. -- Stay equipped. -- Thank you! Well, this is fun! -- What do you think about them banning plastic straws? -- Yeah, and the ocean's full of plastic, so it's good. -- ...but you're using one. ...that's kind of hypocritical. -- ...not if it's free. [Will laughs]
There were 36,525 days in the twentieth century. Of these, none was more consequential than June 6th, 1944. D-Day: the Allied invasion of Normandy in Nazi-occupied France. It did not end World War II, but without it, the Nazi war machine would not and could not have been defeated. We, of course, know the good guys America, England and its allies won. But in 1944, there was no certainty of success. In fact, there was just as much doubt as confidence. Winston Churchill's senior advisor, Field Marshal Brooke, wrote in his diary, I am very uneasy about the whole operation. It may well be the most ghastly disaster of the whole war. Brooke's fears were entirely reasonable. First there were tens of thousands of men and millions of tons of material and supplies that had to be moved one hundred miles across one of roughest bodies of water in the world the English Channel. And it had to be kept secret. If the Germans knew where and when the allies were landing, they could mass forces against them and turn the beaches of northern France into killing fields. To prevent this, the Allies took every possible precaution. Their air forces destroyed bridges, roads and railways that might be used by the Germans to rush troops to the invasion site. Everyone knew the attack was coming; the key was to keep the Germans guessing. Fake radio chatter was broadcast to suggest the beaches near Calais would be the landing point. Double agents leaked fake details of units forming in South East England. And movie set designers built phony tanks, planes and ships to support the ruse of an army preparing to cross near Dover for the benefit of German reconnaissance pilots and spies. The Germans swallowed it all. But the Nazis were not the only enemy the Allied forces faced. Mother Nature was just as threatening. The 23,000 paratroopers and glider-borne infantry jumping into Normandy needed moderate winds to be effective. The twelve thousand Allied aircraft needed clear skies. The invasion fleet of six thousand vessels needed calm seas. And there had to be a low tide to expose Nazi obstacles and mines. When high winds and rain began pummeling the Channel, Allied supreme commander General Dwight Eisenhower postponed the invasion date of June 5th by twenty-four hours. That might not sound like a significant delay, but it was. All forces were concentrated and ready to go. All the plans, all the deceptions, could be exposed at any moment. Then came a new forecast. The weather appeared to be breaking. There might be a 12-hour window of opportunity. Eisenhower gave the order: We go. Immediately, the greatest invasion fleet ever assembled set sail. On board were over 130,000 young soldiers. Consider for a moment who these soldiers were. The average age of the American GI was 21. Most had never seen combat or even been fifty miles from their hometown. As they sailed toward the French shoreline, Eisenhower wrote a press release in case of catastrophe. D-Day was an all-or-nothing affair. A new invasion strategy would take months, if not years, to devise. The initial battle reports were seriously troubling. At Omaha Beach, overlooked by cliffs honeycombed with trenches, cannon and machine-guns, the Americans took heavy losses. I might have killed hundreds that morning, reflected German soldier Hein Severloh, manning one of the bunkers. The rough surf also took its toll. Dr. Harold Baumgarten, with the U.S Army's 116th Infantry, remembered, Some of the fellows were pulled under by their wet combat jackets and heavy equipment. We couldn't help; they just drowned. Further along, Army Rangers also took heavy casualties as they scaled the cliffs under intense gunfire. However, by mid-day with US naval support the Germans, low on supplies and ammunition, began to fold. Nazi reinforcements, including hundreds of tanks, which might have made all the difference, were not ordered to Normandy until the afternoon. Before the Germans could mount an effective counter-attack, the Allies had secured all five landing beaches. Churchill had expected twenty thousand to be killed on D-Day. Fortunately, heavy though they were, the losses were much lower. Of the 156,000 Allied personnel who hit the beaches that day, ten thousand became casualties. Of these, five thousand were killed. No one died in vain. Their sacrifice meant an end to Nazi Germany and the Holocaust. Another year of bitter fighting lay ahead, but D-Day June 6, 1944, was a pivotal step on the road to forever removing the Nazi tyranny from Europe and the world. I'm Peter Caddick-Adams, author of Sand and Steel: A New History of D-Day, for Prager University.
Donald J. Trump is now President of the United States Noooooo To be able to introduce for the first time ever in anywhere the 45th President of the United States of America In case you hadn't noticed Life is difficult, complex and unpredictable You can't change this. It's the nature of things Nooooooo But you can prepare yourself for the next unwelcome surprise How? By building resilience Resilience is the ability to bounce back from life's inevitable disappointments, failures and pains Resilience is the opposite of fragility To be fragile means that just about everything upsets you and if just about everything upsets you you will spend a lot of time angry and hurt and if you spend a lot of time angry and hurt you will not be a happy person I'm so sorry to my world I'm so sorry to my world this is not what we want Get some perspective Step back and assess your situation with as much objectivity as you can How bad is this problem? Have I overstated it? Sometimes my patients think an unhappy occurrence is much more serious than it really is Usually because it's amplified by evoking a painful childhood issue Often getting perspective is as simple as asking yourself this question. What's the worst thing that can happen? Usually you'll discover that the worst thing isn't that bad and isn't even likely to happen There's so much potential for beauty and for in this one moment that so much incomprehensible that they can exist right now, so and we are grateful so close Toughen up Life hits you from all directions Health, personal relationships, work challenges, family issues to deal with them you need to build up your mental toughness The earlier in life once starts this process the better That's why parents who coddle their children and protect them from every hurt and failure are not doing them any favors Nor are colleges that provide students with so-called safe spaces To toughen up, you need to push yourself How do you know what you're capable of, if you don't do that? I'm dr. Stephen Marmer, psychiatrist UCLA Medical School for Prager University
So everybody, when I never met in person-- I never met Jordan Peterson in person, but I said to him when we met right before lunch something that is said to me by so many people who meet me for the first time: "I feel like I know you", and I-- That is the highest compliment, in effect. I now understand what a compliment it is when I receive it because I never gave it to somebody before you, and I-- I have watched you for hours and listened to you, and read your book, and in fact, I didn't just read your book. I heard your book from you. So I want to tell you something without embarrassing you, but I think I'd like to. You open your heart and your mind and so do I. When I was very young, I realized that God or nature had given me what I have called a "goodness detector", and I knew, I always knew when I was in the presence of a good person because that's all I really care about. I think brains are wildly over-rated. Wildly. That's why I think you're not bright if you join MENSA. Why you would want to announce to the world your IQ is so bizarre to me that I-- I'm sure there are nice people there, but I I don't understand it, but I always picked up that and I've always been right. It's a-- I'm batting a thousand essentially and when I heard you read your book, the passion comes from, "I just want to help people lead a better life", and it's really, it's quite overwhelming. You didn't just read that book. You... I won't say you sang it, but I like that you use music. I'm very much into music too. So this is the man that I'm honored to have this dialogue with, because you're-- everybody knows you're bright, but I know you're good, so I wanted to state that at the outset. *applause* Peterson: I have something to say about that. Prager: Good. That's good. *laughter* Peterson: See I don't think it's true. I mean, this is why. I got motivated to do what I've been doing, and I've been doing what I've been doing for, I would say since about 1979 in one form or another because things take a long time to generate. And one of the things I learned in the early '80s was that people have a great capacity for evil, and I didn't really understand that of myself until the early eighties, something like that, after meditating on it for a long time, and so I would say, it's not that I'm-- I would never claim to be good. I think it's dangerous. But I did become terrified of how terrible I could be. And I mean, I became terrified about how terrible human beings could be and that's one thing, but that's easy-- It's easy to confuse that with other human beings. You know, it's a different thing to understand that it's true of yourself. I often recommend to my students that they read history as a perpetrator and not as a victim or a hero and people very seldom do that and it's no wonder, but I would say perhaps that I became terrified enough from learning what I learned that I tried to avoid the pathways that lead people to the dark places that they go, and there's something in that that might approximate good. Prager:Yeah, it does approximate good. I would agree with that. *laughter* *applause* The parallels between us are so eerie to me that in my book on happiness, which came out of '99, I actually have a chapter on the necessity of having a tragic view of life, and then I hear you speak of, like just now, this tragic view of life and ironically, if you don't have that, you can't be happy. So it's just another example of this in that you're getting this message out. If you want to comment on that, please, if not I'll go on. You are such an-- I watch you and you're such an intense listener. I don't know when you're gonna react so... * laughter * Peterson: There's this old idea You all know this idea. It's an idea that's expressed, for example, in the classic Disney movie, a classic Disney movie which I really like, called Pinocchio and you know when Pinocchio is attempting to free himself from the forces that manipulate him as a puppet and to become an autonomous being, he is required to go to the darkest place to find the worst, the worst monster and face that voluntarily, and in doing so, he rescues his father, and that's a very old idea. I don't know how old it is. It's one of the oldest ideas we have in written form and and there's no doubt that in its pre-written form it would be tens of thousands of years older than that, and it's a very strange idea that you have to journey to the darkest abyss to free the spirit of your father. But there's a reason for it, and it has to do with the tragic view of life, which is, that you can't discover what you're capable of being or withstanding, and those are the same things without -- if you hide away from any of the things about life that are terrible but true, and the reason you can't discover who you are without doing that is that only necessity will force that out of you, and I mean that from the perspective of learning, if you go work in a palliative care ward, you'll learn to deal with death. You'll learn the psychological strategies necessary -- the steps. You'll become more informed, but it's deeper than that even. We know now from a biological perspective that if you put yourself in new situations, in new and challenging situations, that new genes turn on in your nervous system and code for new proteins that produce new neurological structures. And so, you can't even be what you are fully biologically unless you expose yourself to everything that you can expose your self to, as you journey through life. The old idea of a pilgrimage was predicated on that idea, as is walking the Chartres Cathedral, the labyrinth. The idea that you walk the labyrinth in Chartres and you come to the center is that you traverse every corner of the world quarter by quarter, and then you come to the center, and the center is the center of the church, and it's the center of the crucifixion. It's the center of suffering and you can't get to what that center signifies without having journeyed everywhere. And so, the tragic view of life is necessary, because it puts you on the journey that reveals to yourself who you could be if you were courageous, as courageous as you could be, and as truthful as you could be, and that's equivalent to discovering, to reviving your dead father, because you are an ancient creature in some sense and perhaps one with a spark of divinity inherent in it, but you will never release that unless you're willing to go everywhere that you have to go, because only necessity will call that out of you. And so you can't be happy. You can't be complete without... You can't know what you could withstand. You can't have any proper sense of self-respect unless you know what you can tolerate, and if you avoid everything that you have reason to avoid, but should nonetheless not avoid, you won't know who you are and then you can't live properly. Prager: You have said on a number of occasions, and on every occasion that I have watched you say it, not a single person in the panel, you often talk on panels, not one person has ever actually reacted to it. I totally get it. Nevertheless, it's one of the most important things you regularly say. You live as if there is a God. Is that correct? Peterson: Well, people ask me if I believe in God. You know, I'm gonna release a podcast about that, because I answered that question for about two hours in Australia, because people kept asking me that question, which I really don't like. I don't like that question, and so I sat and thought about it for a good while and I tried to figure out why, and and then I thought, "Well, you believe". I thought, who would have the audacity to claim that they believed in God, if they examined the way they lived. Who would dare say that? To believe, you think, to believe in a Christian sense - this is why Nietzsche said there was only ever one Christian, and that was Christ. To have the audacity to claim that, means that you live it out fully and that's an unbearable task in some sense. I just debated Slavoj Zizek about a week ago, although it wasn't really much of a debate. It was a strange event, but he said something very brilliant, and to me that justified the entire event, at least from my perspective. He talked about Christ's moment of crisis on the cross, when he cried out to God that he had been forsaken, and what Zizek said was that what that meant was that the conditions of human existence are so tragic that even God himself in human form lost faith for a moment in the goodness of being. And I thought that was a remarkable observation, because, well, if God himself would lose faith under such conditions, what would you expect from normal human beings confronted with what we're confronted by? To be able to accept the structure of existence, the suffering that goes along with it, and the disappointment, and the betrayal, and to nonetheless act properly, right, to aim at the good with all your heart, right, to dispense with the malevolence and your desire for destruction and revenge and all of that and to face things courageously and to tell the truth, to speak the truth and to act it out. That's what it means to believe. That's what it means! It doesn't mean to state it! it means to act it out, and unless you act it out, you should be very careful about claiming it. And so I've never been comfortable saying anything other than I try to act as if God exists because God only knows what you'd be if you truly believed. I mean, if you think about it in some sense, that's the central idea in Christianity is that if you were capable of believing, it would be a transfiguring event, a truly transfiguring event. And I know people experience that to one degree or another, but we have no idea what the limit of that is. So we have no idea what the possibility is within each person if they lived a life that was maximally courageous and maximally truthful. You know, because maybe you're running at 60% or 70% or 20%, and at cross-purposes to yourself. God only knows what you'd be, if you believed. And so, well, I try to act like I believe, but I'd never claim that I manage it, because it's a lot to manage properly, and you have to be careful about claiming to manage things that you can't manage, and so that's part of the answer to that question. Prager: It's a great answer as it happens. * Applause * Prager: I'd like you to react to something that is very operative in my life. I just, and if you - I always tell people on my radio show: Totally feel free to say, "Sorry. I really don't find that tenable," or whatever you, however you want to react. My route as an adult to God has been completely circuitous. I have come through the the back door. As I wrote 25 years ago, "How I found God at Columbia." I realized in the '70s at graduate school at Columbia that I was being taught nonsense. Literally nonsense. Things that made no sense, and it drove me crazy because they were all bright. Bright people taught me nonsense. One day walking through Columbia, the only time I ever had - I wouldn't say, I never had a theophany, but I did have an epiphany. All of a sudden one of the verses from my yeshiva education in Brooklyn, New York, the Cloistered Orthodox world of my childhood and I don't use Cloistered and I don't like Cloistered but I'm not using it at a pejorative way. I'm just explaining what I had, and all of a sudden, one of the verses that we said every morning in Kindergarten first grade and second grade, for the first time since second grade came to my brain. *Speaks Hebrew* Wisdom begins with fear of the Lord. Changed my life. There's no wisdom at Columbia because there's no God at Columbia and that has been - that is one of the ways I knew. Oh, without God, look what happens. Without God, look what happens morally, intellectually, in terms of wisdom, and my biggest reasons for belief in God are watching what happens when people don't. So I'd love to have your reaction. Peterson: Is it C.S. Lewis? Was it C.S. Lewis who said that if you cease to believe in God you'll start to believe in anything? Prager: That was the British guy... Peterson: Chesterton. Prager: Chesteron. Right? Yeah. Peterson: Thank you. Yeah. Well, that's a... That's a good way of looking at it. I mean if Catholicism, you know? I've gone through lots of Catholic cathedrals in Europe. And of course, they're stunning creations but they're gothic and strange and the doctrine is eerie, and complex and surreal and the Biblical writings are the same. You think of a book like Revelation for example. But I think that Catholicism, that's as sane as people can get. You know, broadly speaking is that we need a metaphysic, a narrative metaphysic to hold us together, and it has to be predicated on something that's transcendent and absolute. And if you lose that, then you'll fall for something else. You'll fall for something else, or you'll fall for nothing, which is which is no better, and I learned that from reading Nietzsche and I learned that from reading Dostoevsky and this is the problem with the rationalists like Sam Harris and the atheists, Dawkins. Now they believe that if we dispensed with our superstitions, we'd all become Harris and Dawkins. * Laughter * Rational beings devoted towards the good, however we conceptualize that for rational reasons and I don't believe that, because I don't believe that we are rational beings fundamentally. I think we're deeply irrational. It's amazing that we can all sit in this room together without tearing ourselves into shreds. And I mean that. It's really quite a remarkable thing that all of us, who've come from all over North America, can sit here so peacefully and concentrate on a single thing without any tension or trouble. The improbability of that should not be underestimated and the unlikelihood that that might be the case. And then the issue of God as well is that there has to be something of fundamental worth. There is something that you consider of fundamental worth! You know what? I think that regard for other people, for the consciousness of other people, for the conscious being of other people, is in that realm. If you're going to have a relationship with yourself. If you're going to be able to love someone else. If you're going to be able to take care of your family and your community, you have to attribute to human beings, a value that might as well be described as divine, given that it has to be the the ultimate value that you hold. I see, it seems to me that it's not unreasonable to associate that value that is intrinsic in humanity, with something that's of metaphysically - that's metaphysically real. That's part of the structure of reality itself, and my sense has been that it's... It makes... If you watch how people act when they're acting properly, the hypothesis that there is divinity within us, that reflects divinity itself, is the only conclusion that makes sense that works. And so I think the evidence, I think the evidence suggests that. You know, you said, you look what happens when societies lose their bearings. It's like, yeah, that's what convinced me to the degree that I became a religious person. I didn't... wasn't as if I discovered God. It was more like I discovered Satan. I'd discovered the Devil and certainly believed that very powerfully. Metaphysically or not, you don't have to read that much about what happened in Nazi Germany or what happened in the Soviet Union or what happened in Maoist China, what continues to happen in many places around the world, to be convinced that there's a great darkness and it seems to me that if there's a great darkness then there has to be a great light, and the first part of that is true beyond any hope of refutation, and the second seems to be a logical necessity in the light of the first. Prager: It's a powerful line that you... I feel so obviously the same. I want to talk to you about the darkness. So, I've often said, all of my life, really, that we have a wrong metaphor in calling evil dark because it's actually so bright that people can't stare it in the face. The number of Canadian or American students at the most prestigious universities who could identify Pol Pot or even the Gulag Archipelago, let alone the Great Leap Forward in China, is so small. The knowledge of evil. It is now up to over a quarter of kids never heard of Auschwitz. It'll be a half very soon. It will be three quarters in a generation. They don't know evil. At Berkeley, I had a dialogue with two leftist students. My last question to them was, "Do you believe people are basically good?," and they said "Yes." And I said, "It's so demonstrably wrong, that belief, that there's only one possible explanation for why you hold it. Because you live in such a good country." Peterson: Yeah, well, that's the goodness of naivety, right? And it's something that's encouraged, you know, you encourage that by producing safe spaces around people. You produce that by sheltering them. You want to preserve that child-like innocence but once you're no longer a child, it's not child-like. It's just childish. And that's not good to be a 40-year-old child and to think that people are fundamentally good. It's not - good is very difficult. It's by no means the default position. What's the default position? Entropy! Catastrophe, tragedy, malevolence, and death. That's the default position. The good struggles up against that. That's no easy thing to manage. To think of that is intrinsic. It's an intrinsic possibility, but it's not something that you It's not something that... It's not something that you can manifest without faith and commitment, and the more faith and the more commitment the better, and the deeper the better, and it's the most difficult of things to do, and it is, it's appalling to teach people the alternative. And I know that I speak of this clinically. You know, the people who are most prone to post-traumatic stress disorder are naive people. This is well-known clinically. There's nothing about this that's questionable or unorthodox. If you believe that people are basically good and that the world rewards goodness with good in return. If that's your fundamental belief, that there's not really any such thing as evil and you encounter someone malevolent, which could be yourself - Well, that's often what happens to people who develop post-traumatic stress disorder, you know, they're... it's very common that people develop P.T.S.D. because they've done something so incomprehensibly, morally repugnant that it's damaged them psychophysiologically, and they cannot recover. It's very common among soldiers. It's not what they saw, although sometimes it is. It's what they did. They have no framework within which to conceptualize it. If you have no theory of evil, if you have no theory of good and evil, if you have no metaphysics, and someone malevolent touches you, you're done. And so, telling people that human beings are basically good and that evil doesn't exist makes them ripe fruit for the picking by the malevolent, and there's nothing about that that's positive. It's mere cowardice masquerading as virtue. It's the devouring mother from the Freudian perspective. I'll keep you innocent. I'll keep you young and naive and nothing will ever come to harm you. It's like, precisely the opposite is the case in life. Prager: That is, why by the way, I truly... * Applause * Prager: That is why I truly believe that a 12 year old at a traditional Christian or Jewish school is wiser and more likely to be happy than a secular professor of philosophy who is 50 years old. Just because I knew, I went again to yeshiva, so half the day in Hebrew Jewish studies, half the day in English secular studies. I knew at 6, people were not basically good, because God said so in Genesis when he decided to destroy the world because it turned out rotten. So I knew at the earliest possible age, people were not basically good, and it not only affected my *Yiddish*, my worldview, it made me happy, because then I realized, "Wow, I'm meeting good people, despite the fact that people are not basically good. I really do have good people in my life. Am I lucky or what?" Peterson: Yeah. Yeah. Well that's it. That's a really good. That's a really good point because, you see, when I said that it was a miracle that we can all sit here peacefully. Like, that is how I look at it. I think every day when I walk out into the world and it's not rack and ruins and flames and floods, that it's a bloody miracle. I mean it! That we hold this together, it's not an easy thing to do, and peace, to think of peace as the default position is a form of deep insanity. Like, it requires work to maintain peace and you can't be properly grateful unless you understand how unlikely it is that we're not in the throes of World War 3. We're not still in the depths of World War 2, that the Cold War is mostly over, that the economic conditions of people everywhere on the planet are improving at a rate that could only be described as miraculous, and that most things are going in a positive direction. If you assume that that's normative, then you think well, that's life, and you have no reason to to be wide-eyed, to have your eyes wide open in admiration and gratitude at the fact that the worst, which is frequently manifested itself, is not knocking at your door at this moment, because that's the story of humanity, and not peace and prosperity. So here we have it, and here we should preserve it, and here we should spread it. We should do everything we can to live in a manner that makes that most likely, and we should do that because, well, you said, what did you say about fear of God? It's like, throughout the Old Testament, you know, it's one story after another that people develop societies and they become arrogant and they wander off the path. And as soon as they wander off the path, all Hell breaks loose, and if you're fortunate enough to be where all Hell isn't breaking loose, you should do everything you can to help ensure that we stay the course and walk the straight and narrow path. Prager: So I have a - * Applause * So, I have a very deep worry, in light of our absolute unanimity, if you could speak of unanimity among two people, but we're so consonant in this. This is shocking how good things are, and yet in the United States, and I follow Canada a lot but let's speak about America right now. In the United States, half, at least half of young people think they are living in a rotten society. Sexist, intolerant, xenophobic, homophobic, Islamophobic, racist, bigoted. That's a SIXHERB. That's my acronym for what I just said. This is frightening to me and I want to know is it frightening to you? Peterson: Well, you know, I always try to give the devil his due, and the idea that the West is a oppressive patriarchy, characterized by the sins that you just described, is true. You know, there's, if we look through our history, personal or political, there's no shortage of things to be appalled by. That's not the question exactly, or that's not the issue. The issue is compared to what? No, it was Churchill, this time I've got this right. * laughter * It was Churchill who said that democracy is the worst form of government, except for all the other forms of government, and I would say that about our societies is that, there's no - We have every reason to be awake and cognizant of our errors. Whether they're political or economic or personal, but compared to how it could be, and how it has been in many places and how it is most everywhere in the world and how it was for much of the 20th century. Things are so good here that it's absolutely beyond comprehension, and so along with that, careful awareness of the flaws of the patriarchy, let's say, should be an unbelievable gratitude that we could wake up in the morning and the lights are on and the the freeways are running, and there's no starvation directly facing us, and that our children will live and that the probability that any one of us will die a violent death is negligible, and the thing that bothers me about... one of the things that bothers me about the modern university is the absolute lack of gratitude that characterizes its teachings. It's like, it's half the story, you know, it's like people are oppressed by nature, and people are oppressed by culture, and people are oppressed by their own dark nate, their own dark side. It's an existential reality, but you have to balance that. You have to understand that nature has its benevolent element and that's what's giving you life, and you have to be grateful for your culture, for everything that is provided to you, and you have to understand that people can be good as well as adversarial and malevolent, and you have to be grateful for that and there's damn... There's a damnable shortage of gratitude in the modern academy, and that's based on a naivety or a resentment that's so deep that it's almost incomprehensible. A naivety, and a resentment, and a willful blindness to the reality of history that's so deep that it's almost incomprehensible. Prager: If I may ask you... It may strike you as absurd but I'm gonna ask it anyway. Except for technical knowledge, like medicine, or engineering, mathematics, obviously any of the Natural Sciences, law, if nobody went.. If all North Americans graduating high school decided, I'm not going to college, would North America be a better or a worse place? Peterson: If you took away the STEM fields? Prager: Yeah, taking away the STEM fields. Peterson: I think that universities, not colleges necessarily, I think that universities do more harm than good now, and I'm very loath to say that, you know, because I've been part of the academy for thirty years, and taught at great institutions, but the postmodern collectivist doctrine is so psychologically and politically toxic that I think that academia now does more harm than good. It's not only what it teaches, which is the ideology, this ungrateful ideology which denies the existence of the individual. One of the things I might tell you just so you know this, is that, you know that you hear that there are debates about free speech on campus, about who should talk and who shouldn't, and people think that's what the debate is about. About who should talk and who shouldn't. But that's not what the debate is about. You're not even scraping the surface of the debate if that's what you think it's about. The debate on campus is about whether or not a human being has the capacity to communicate intelligibly as an individual or not, and the answer for the postmodernist collective types is that there is no such thing as an individual, and therefore the very notion of free speech is absurd, because free speech is predicated on the idea that each of us have something to say that's ours, that's a consequence of our unique individuality, not our group identity, or the multiplicity of our group identities but something that-- something that we have that speaks from our spirit, that can speak to the spirit of another and produce a negotiated peace, and that's what's being debated! The war that's going on philosophically or theologically in the campuses is far deeper than you think. The entire notion of the reality of the individual, which is, I think, also the entire notion of the idea that human beings are made in the image of God most fundamentally, that is what's being attacked. It wasn't for nothing that Derrida called Western culture phallogocentric. Phallus for masculine, logos for logos, for truth and courage, and centric for centric. That was a criticism from his perspective. The idea of the sovereignty of the individual. If you don't have the idea of the sovereignty of the individual, because there's no individual, there's no free speech. All you are is an avatar of your group interests, and if I'm not in your group, it's not in my interest to let you speak. There's nothing that we have to say to one another. There's nothing but power. It's a Hobbesian nightmare of group against group and that's the postmodern doctrine, and so, it's, to call it appalling is to barely scrape the surface. It's an assault. It is truly an assault on the most fundamental principles by which the West is governed. It's not surface level philosophy. It goes all the way to the bottom. This is partly why I've been concentrating on religious themes in my lectures, let's say, because the argument goes all the way down to first principles. Is the idea of the sovereignty of the individual correct? The Western answer is, it's the great discovery of the West. The Western answer is that's the most fundamental truth. That is exactly what's under assault at the universities. The reason that the collectivist types hate me is because I've got their number. I know what they're up to. * Applause * And I think, further that, they do not wish to shoulder the unbearable responsibility of being a sovereign individual. So, not only is it - And that accounts for the cowardice, and that accounts for the attempt to weaken the spirit of the people that they're teaching, by over-protecting them. They're not willing to take on the responsibility, and that the fault has to lie elsewhere. And I think that's a good judge of someone, someone's character in general. It's like: Well, the world is in the messy state. Let's say, and the question is, whose fault is it? And the answer is: Yours. That's the right answer. It's not the patriarchy. It's not some identifiable group. It's not some structure that's gone wrong, even though those things can go wrong, and that's the other fundamental truth of the West. Is that, things would be a lot better if you were a lot better, and you have to decide if you're willing to accept that, and you have every reason not to. It's it's a terrible thought. Don't - With Solzhenitsyn I think, and this is a paraphrase, but it's close enough, he said that one person who stopped lying could bring down a tyranny, and that, when I first read that, I thought, "That can't possibly be true," and as I understood it, I thought, "That can't possibly not be true," because the only thing that can break the spine of a tyranny is the truth, and the only person that - the only way that the truth can be told is that some individual tells it. And so it's necessarily the case that tyranny is broken by the truth of the individual. But then the question is well, is it going to be you that's going to do that? It's no trivial thing. You know, people come and tell me very frequently, and they write me and they say "Well, you know, I agree with what you say and this terrible thing is happening in my workplace, and you know, I don't know what to do about it. And I don't want you to make my story public because of the potential for repercussions." And I think, yeah, Well, I mean, I understand your position. It's no joke - it's no joke to stand up when the amateur totalitarians are knocking on your office door. But if you don't, then sooner than you think it'll be the professional totalitarians, and then you'll be in this sort of trouble that, that unless you've tried to imagine it, you can't possibly imagine. Prager: In the minutes remaining, I'm gonna ask you a few personal questions, as I did with the late great Charles Krauthammer at one of our weekends, Because people like, including me, are just fascinated. So here's one: What was the city in Alberta you grew up in? Peterson: Well, it wasn't a city. Prager: Exactly. Okay. Peterson: It was a little town. It's called Fairview. It's about 800 miles north of the American border. So, it's a long ways up there. Prager: Right. So how often, if at all, do you think, when people stop you at airports and you go around the world lecturing, "Jordan Peterson from Fairview, it's hard to believe." Does that happen? Peterson: Well, I live in a constant state of disbelief. I mean, I'm dead serious about this. I think it's a form of post-traumatic shock in some sense. I mean, my life in the last three years has been just a continuous series of surreal Impossibilities. I mean, on the one hand, I've been involved in a political scandal of some sort for a good year and a half. It was at least twice a week, and then for the entire three year period, it's been at least once a week. It's non-stop and sometimes it's national, and sometimes it's international, but it's continual, and so that's... I'll give you an example. This is a funny little story. My son came over one day about a year and a half ago, and I was having a kind of a rough day because 200 of my colleagues at the university had signed a document trying to get me fired, and then they gave it to the Union and and the Union presented it to the administration without even informing me, even though I'm part of the faculty Union, and so I said to my son, "Julian, you know 200 of my colleagues today just signed a letter, saying that I should be fired," and he said "Oh, Dad, don't don't worry about that. It was only 200." * Laughter * But I thought, well, that's where we were at, you know, was like, oh that's nothing. That was a light day. *Laughter* I was okay, you know, and then, so there's that, and and the fact that it doesn't quit, that's another thing I can't understand. It's like, you know all this blew up around me around Bill C16, and I thought, well, I've had my 15 minutes or my, then it was like, well, I've had my week, and then it was like, I must have had my month, and then... but none of that happened. It just kept expanding and expanding and expanding and expanding and expanding and every day I wake up and I think well, this is gonna come to an end, but it doesn't. It just expands, and that just doesn't seem credible in the least. Every time I come to an event like this, or I mean, when I was in Australia, I was speaking to audiences of 5,500 people, and it's like: How in the world can you believe that? It's like, you heard what I just said. Who in their right mind would come and listen to someone who just told you what I told you. You know? It's so dark, and it's so demanding, you wouldn't think that people would line up for blocks and spend their hard-earned money, and and come because it's a marital anniversary. That's what they say. "This was our anniversary present to each other." I think you people, you're completely out of your mind! *laughter* And so, and then, I think too, you know that the state of disbelief is necessary, and maybe that's an advantage to being older, because I'm too old to adapt rapidly, and this isn't the sort of thing that you should adapt to, right? I should be in a constant state of shock, disbelief, because it keeps my head on straight. I don't know what's going on exactly. I don't know why it's the case that what I'm saying is so necessary apparently, but it seems to be, and I'm trying to figure out why. But I'm certainly not for a second, I think I take very little for granted, and I mean, I think I take even less for granted than you might think. I told you that I don't take it for granted that you can all sit here peacefully, you know. And that is how I look at the world, is that if it isn't burning in rack and runes, then I think it's a bloody miracle and the fact that things have gone well for me, and that I'm still standing, which is also a miracle of sorts. You know, I mean, there are probably 30 different scandalous episodes, that had every, that anyone with any sense would have thought would finish me, and they've all backfired, and that's also... *applause * I also don't understand that. It's like, I don't understand that. I get attacked in New York Times, and my friends call me, who are New York Times readers, and they say, "You've had it this time, because that was the New York Times, you know, you're not gonna recover from that," and I think well, that's probably true. I mean, I was expecting it to happen all along, and then I wait and then, you know, everybody clamors at me and then I don't respond too much to that, and it starts to die away, and then all the supporters come out, and then there's a hundred people who clamor and 10,000 supporters, and you know, here's something I can tell you about my life that's really remarkable. So, you know, if you just read the press, well, you'd have all sorts of ideas about me. I mean, you know that I'm a bigot in the broadest possible sense. And so, that's, you know, racist, sexist, homophobic, ethnocentric, white nationalist, alt right, Nazi, Hitler, all of those things. And you'd think that there was just nothing but hatred. Although, I have been treated well by many journalists, but you could easily get that sense that I live in a world where I'm surrounded by hatred, and that is absolutely not true! It's so not true that it's... You know, there are lies and then there anti-truths, and an anti truth is even worse than a lie. It's like the ultimate form of lie, and that isn't what my life is like at all. What my life is like is that I travel with my wife and wherever we go, and I mean that literally, wherever we go - We've been to I don't know how many countries in the last year. It's like, I don't know how many. 30-40, many countries. If I go down the street, or if I'm in an airport, or if I'm in a cafe, or if I'm in a movie theater, or if I'm in a mechanic's shop, some person comes up to me every 10 minutes, and says, "I hope I'm not disturbing you." And they're very, very polite, and they say, "I've been listening to your lectures or I've been watching your YouTube videos or I read your book, and I was in this dreadful place six months ago," and then they tell me a little bit about the particulars of that little corner of Hell they were ensconced in, and then they say, "Well, I've been trying to develop a vision for my life." Or, "I've been trying to take more responsibility," or "been trying to be grateful for my job, mundane though it may be," or "I've decided that I'm going to try to put my family together, and make peace, and I've really been trying and it's really working and things are way better, and thank you." *voice crackles* And so, Well, it's overwhelming to have that happen continually. It's very difficult to believe, but it's unbelievably positive. You know, I mean, it's... if you could imagine, if you could ask for what you want today. You could have anything you wanted. You might think, "It would be lovely if I could live my life in a manner so that wherever I went in the world, perfect strangers would come up to me, one after the other, and tell me that they're suffering much less, that their families are in better shape, and that their lives are on course, because they took they took to heart something that I was communicating." That's as good as it gets, as far as I can tell. * Applause * Prager: I really don't want to ask anything else. I think this was so powerful, and if that didn't prove my instinct is right, nothing will. Jordan Peterson, you are a good man. You are doing a lot of good. I thank God he made you. Thank you. *Cheers and applause* Thank you for watching this video. To help keep PragerU videos free, please consider making a tax-deductible donation.
There are no shortcuts. There are no hacks. If you want to take the easy road, I promise you: it's longer and more painful than the hard road. I know. I've lived it. I've ventured down the easy road at times in my life and it never led to anywhere good. The positive things in my life always came when I faced the biggest challenges. I joined the Navy. I took the hard road in the Navy and made it into the SEAL Teams. There, I had the honor of leading men in combat. I learned some lessons along the way, lessons that have been tested on the battlefield and, when implemented, lead to success in any arena. One of the best things I've learned is that anyone has what it takes to travel the hard road - to walk The Path that leads to success. That includes you. It won't be easy. It will demand everything you've got to give. But you can do it, and I want to give you three key principles I've learned that will help you to get it done. Principle number one: Discipline. Equals. Freedom. That's not a contradiction - it's an equation. Discipline might appear to be the opposite of freedom. But, in fact, discipline is the path to freedom. Discipline is the driver of daily execution. Discipline defeats the infinite excuses that hold you back. Some people think motivation is what will compel them to get things done. But motivation is just an emotion - a feeling, and like all feelings, it's fickle: it comes and goes. You can't count on motivation to be there when you need to get through truly challenging times. But you can count on discipline. Discipline is something you dictate. Motivation won't make you exercise every day; discipline will. Motivation won't stay up late and finish a project for you; discipline will. Motivation isn't going to get you out of bed in the morning; discipline will. Make discipline part of your daily life and your daily life will get better. Principle Number Two: Stay. Humble. In life, you are going to have to do things that you don't want to do. Maybe things that you don't think you should have to do - things that offend your precious ego. When I got done with Basic SEAL Training and reported on board SEAL Team One, you know what I was assigned to do? I was assigned to clean toilets. That's right - despite having just graduated some of the most difficult military training in the world, despite being assigned to an elite commando unit - my first mission at the actual SEAL Team was to clean toilets. Not exactly a glorious job. But you know what? I did it. I did it to the best of my ability and took pride in doing it well. And that attitude got noticed: if I cared that much about how clean the toilets were, people knew I would do a good job with even more important assignments. After a short period of time, I got those more important assignments. But it was humility that opened the door for me. Now, being humble does not mean that you shouldn't be confident. You certainly have to believe that you are a capable person. But don't let confidence turn into arrogance. So keep your ego in check and stay humble. The third and final principle: Take. Ownership. Of. Everything. I call this Extreme Ownership. In the military, the best leaders and the best troops were the ones that took ownership of everything in their world - not just the things they were responsible for, but for every challenge and obstacle that impacted their mission. When something went wrong: They cast no blame, they made no excuses. They took ownership of the problem and fixed it. You can implement this attitude as well - not only in your job, but in your life. Let other people blame their parents, their boss, or the system. Let weaker people complain that the world isn't fair. You are the leader of your life: take ownership of everything in it. So: be disciplined in all that you do. Don't subject yourself to the whims of motivation. Stay humble and be willing to do what needs to be done. And: take extreme ownership of your life and everything in it. Then: choose the hard path - the path of responsibility, hard work, and sacrifice. The Path of discipline, humility, and ownership that ultimately leads to freedom. If you follow these principles, then nothing in the world will stop you. I'm Jocko Willink, host of the Jocko Podcast and author of Extreme Ownership, for Prager University.
When I was Prime Minister of Canada, I was often asked this question: Why do you support Israel? My response, in effect, was always the same. Why wouldn't I support Israel? Why wouldn't I support a fellow democratic nation where open elections, free speech, and religious tolerance are the everyday norm? Why wouldn't I support a country with a vibrant free press and an independent judiciary? Why wouldn't I support a valuable trading partner and a well-spring of amazing technological innovation? Why wouldn't I support our most critical ally in the Middle East, and in the international struggle against terrorism? In a rational world, in a world where simple common sense prevailed, the question why do you support Israel? would be like asking why do you support Australia orCanada? But we don't live in that rational, common sense world. So, the case for Israel has to be made over and over. I, for one, am happy to make it. Let me start with this: Every military action Israel has ever taken has been to protect itself. Israel is not an aggressor state; it's a defensive state. This has been true from its founding to this day. As a fledgling nation in 1948, Israel was immediately attacked by its Arab neighbors. Their goal was not to contain the tiny new country, it was to annihilate it. No nation came to Israel's aid. Not the United States, not my country, Canada, not the United Kingdom -- no one. They all thought Israel would lose. But it didn't lose. It won. In 1967, Israel's neighbors again sought to utterly destroy the Jewish State, a nation that had then existed for two decades. Again, Israel prevailed. And It survived another all-out attack in 1973. Those are the big wars, but I'm not sure there has been a single day in Israel's entire history when some act of terror has not been waged against it inside or outside its borders. There have been two bloody waves of terror, so-called intifadas, in the late 1980's and the early 2000's, when Israelis were blown up on buses, at pizza parlors and celebrating weddings. There have been incursions from terror groups like Hezbollah in Lebanon. There have been thousands of rocket attacks from Hamas in the Gaza Strip even after Israel completely withdrew from that territory in 2005. In between the wars, in between the terror, Israel has sought peace with its neighbors. And it has achieved peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan. For others, however, every Israeli gesture for peace is met with incitement and violence. I recount this history for one reason. Any nation that has endured what Israel has endured could easily have become a police state. But through it all Israel has never abandoned its commitment to the rule of law, to democracy, to tolerance. One fifth of its citizens are Muslim. They enjoy the same rights as Jewish citizens. They occupy key positions in the nation's courts, press and government. And they have their own parties representing them in the Knesset, Israel's parliament. To say that Muslims in Israel are the freest Muslims in the region is an understatement. How about this as a human rights test: prisoners in Israel, be they Jewish or Arab, are well-treated, well-fed, and have access to the best possible medical care. Parents and spouses of these prisoners know where they are and that they are safe. Who else in the region but Israel can make that claim? Through all the wars and all the terror, Israel has survived and, especially in the last twenty years, it has thrived. It's known as startup nation and with good reason. Key components of your cell phone and your laptop were designed in Israel. A drug or a medical device that has saved your life or the life of a loved one may have been developed in Israel. Yet there are Leftist politicians, activists, artists, academics and college students who devote their lives to denouncing Israel; calling for boycotts, demanding it be cut off from academic and professional societies. Do they denounce the Palestinian leadership that hasn't held an election in well over a decade? Do they denounce the leadership of Hamas who use women and children as human shields to protect their fighters? No. They denounce free, vibrant, democratic, innovative Israel. With all the brutal and violent regimes not only in the Middle East, but around the world how is one to explain singling out Israel for condemnation? Sadly, only one explanation fits anti-Semitism. Do these haters of Israel question the legitimacy of any other democratic nation? Of any nation, for that matter? Of course, the answer is no. Somehow they only manage to oppose the Jewish one. The State of Israel has now existed for 70 years. It is one of the freest, most prosperous, most successful nations on earth. Why do I support Israel? Why wouldn't I? Why wouldn't anyone? I'm Stephen Harper, twenty-second prime-minister of Canada, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is will wit with Prager you today? We're in New York City at Washington Square Park talking to NYU students about free college. Let's do it Do you think that college should be free for all yes Yes, yeah Yeah, I think it's a good idea. I think I think the government like has the budget to like fund it I mean obviously and they also should be recognizing the fact that people are getting raped and Harvard and they're not even paying attention to it. Yeah. I mean, I'm French so coming from France I think like, you know, it's been done already like four years Do you think that if college were free and everyone can go it would make college less valuable No, not really who would pay for it if it was free for all I Think we should tax the wealthiest people in the country. I think you're seeing education Yeah, like it would be taxpayer money. I mean to an extent called it should definitely be more Giving but so should the government and they should stop spending so much money on military I've always been for like cutting the military budget I think it's like ridiculous if I want it to be like a trashman, you know, and I just graduated high school I never went to college and then you're going to school And you're getting a degree does nothing to do with me. Do you think it's fair that my tax dollars pay for your school? Yes, is that fair I mean, I don't really know I think everyone deserves like higher education. Yeah Confirmed garbage people should pay for my college. Okay. I want to get a Gender Studies degree The garbage man owes me his labor to pay for my Gender Studies degree. Okay, I think it's ridiculous how expensive it is There's like no reason why it should be tens of thousands of dollars. Do you know why schools are so expensive right now? No, I don't give you a big reason the colleges have gotten involved with the federal government so that people are no longer getting loans From banks from private banks. They're getting loans from the government. You know, you can't file bankruptcy on a student loan from the government So if you can't file bankruptcy on a student loan Then why would a school not continue to raise the price of the school if they knew that you couldn't file bankruptcy on it? So they'll continue to bring their prices for the school up because they want to give people more opportunities You know this trying to help people but really it's doing the opposite because it's making college way way way more expensive I was just I was under the impression that banks like interests fees would be like a lot more than like The federal like the FASFA loans and stuff It used to be that way back in the day in the 70s 60s things like that People would go to a bank They'd get a cosigner with their parents and then get a loan if they had really good grades and that's how they would go to School and school was like you go to school for like twenty five hundred Dollars a year and the price for college once the government got involved has been way past inflation rates Do you think that college should be free for all? I don't think it should be what do you say that? Well, basically, I think whenever you're providing a service someone is footing the bill, right? And so I don't know necessarily that something like education at least. I think the privatized sector should not be subsidized I think there's a lot of like expenses that we see with college that are unnecessary. So Like the price is overblown, but it's also I don't believe everyone should go to college I think there's this I guess stigma that like if you don't go to college, you're like wasting your life We're like not living up to But I think it should be more like an exception like exceptional people going to college instead of like everybody going that makes sense Alright guys, we just finished up here and pretty much all the NYU students think that college should be free But we were able to educate some people on why school is so expensive and why College shouldn't be free So we're able to change some minds today Make sure that you follow me on social media Praeger you on social media and share this video with your friends. See in the next one guys, please I feel like honestly, I've taught myself more than schools have taught me. It's all right First of all, there's way too many Republicans and not enough Democrats. That means another way too many Democrats very little Republicans That means the Republicans get more votes because there's more Democrats, you know, if like yeah
One of the criticisms many people make against the Bible is that it depicts God in male terms. The most obvious example is God is referred to as He. Why did the Bible do this? Well, here's the answer: Because the Bible is preoccupied with making a kinder, less violent, more just world. If you share these goals - and I suspect you do - then you'll have to agree the Bible made the right decision. Before I explain, I need to add an obvious caveat: The God of the Bible is neither male nor female. God transcends gender. What I'm talking about here is why God is depicted in male terms in the Bible. Gender-wise, the Bible had three choices: masculine - he; feminine - she; or neuter - it. We can readily rule out neuter. For one thing, neuter nouns don't exist in Hebrew, the language of the Old Testament - which, after all, first introduced this God to us. For another, the biblical God is a personal God to whom we can - and must - relate. And we cannot relate to, let alone obey or love, an It. Aside from the language issue, the Bible depicts God in masculine terms because: One: The Hebrew Bible's primary concern is making a good world. Two: A good world can only be achieved by making good people. And three: The people who commit nearly all the world's violence are males. Therefore, it is in both men's and women's interests to depict God in the masculine. Here's why: Without a father or some other male rule-giver, young men are likely to do great harm. If there is no male authority figure to give a growing boy rules, it is very difficult for him to control his wilder impulses. As President Barack Obama told an audience in 2008, Children who grow up without a father are five times more likely to live in poverty and commit crime, nine times more likely to drop out of school, and twenty times more likely to end up in prison. Commenting on that speech, Dr. Alvin Poussaint, a psychiatrist with Harvard Medical School, confirmed these statistics: The absence of fathers corresponds with a host of social ills, including dropping out of school and serving time in jail. In other words, if one's primary goal is a good world - specifically, a world with far less murder, child abuse, theft, and rape - a God depicted in masculine terms (a Father in Heaven), not a goddess (a Mother in Heaven), must be the source of moral commands such as Do not murder and Do not steal. If the father figure/rule-giver that boys need is not on Earth, a morally authoritative masculine God can serve as an effective substitute. Any discomfort you might feel with a masculine depiction of God is not comparable to the pain we will all feel if boys are not civilized into good men. To transform a wild boy into a good man, a male role model is as necessary as a male rule-giver. So, when the Bible depicts God as merciful, compassionate, and caring for the poor and the widow, it is not so much interested in describing God as in providing a model for humans, especially males, to emulate. If God were depicted as female, young men would deem traits such as compassion, mercy, and care for the downtrodden as feminine and would not identify with them. But if God, their Father in Heaven, who is strong - on occasion, even a warrior - cares for the poor and loves justice, mercy, and kindness, then these traits are also masculine and to be emulated. The argument that girls equally need female role models to avoid violence is objectively not true - because the problem of mayhem and violence is overwhelmingly a male one. Of course, girls need female role models, but not to avoid violence. And, like boys, girls are more likely to obey a male authority figure. A report released by the Minnesota Psychological Association concluded: In a study of female inmates, more than half came from a father-absent home. It is therefore ironic that some women are attempting to render the God of Western religious morality less masculine. Because if their goal is achieved, it is women who will suffer most from lawless males. We have too many absent fathers on Earth to begin to even entertain the thought of having no Father in Heaven. I'm Dennis Prager.
Every single day someone of prominence on the left - a politician, a cable news host, an entertainment figure - accuses someone on the right of being a racist. Here are typical examples: MSNBC host Chris Matthews said this: The age of Jim Crow managed to find a new habitat in the 21st-century Republican Party." Comedian Seth Meyers told his late-night audience that Republicans traffic in open racism. Tennessee state representative London Lamar, a black woman, announced that the entire state of Tennessee is racist. Period. This was just after she was elected in Tennessee! The left calling the right racist isn't new. It's been going on for decades. Republican Presidents Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George Herbert Walker Bush, his son, George W. Bush were all accused of being racists. And, of course, from the left's perspective, racist is essentially Donald Trump's middle name. To call someone a racist is a very serious charge. A racist is a person who believes that one race is inherently superior or inferior to another. It's not intelligence, character or values that determine an individual's worth; it's his or her skin color. To say that racism is foolish and stupid - not to mention evil - is to understate the case. But according to most Democrats, Republicans are that stupid and that evil. So, let's examine some conservative policies to see if they are, indeed, racist. If they are, then the left has a valid complaint. And if they're not, then the left is lying. The longstanding conservative opposition to Affirmative Action is a good place to start. It was Democratic president John F. Kennedy who, in 1961, first used the term affirmative action. But Affirmative Action in the way we think of it now wasn't implemented until 1970, during the administration of a Republican president, Richard Nixon. The theory was that, because of historical discrimination, blacks were at a competitive disadvantage to other races and ethnicities. To erase that disadvantage, standards that most blacks presumably couldn't meet had to be lowered. One could make the case that this policy had some utility when it was first put in place. But that was a long time ago. The conservative position is that blacks have repeatedly proven they can compete with anyone without the benefits of lower standards. There are countless examples of black success in every field, at every level. The policy is no longer necessary. But the conservative argument goes further. Study after study shows that, in the case of college admissions, affirmative action hurts more blacks than it helps. By lowering admissions standards for blacks (and some other minority students), colleges set many of these students up for failure. They get placed in schools for which they are not prepared. And high black dropout rates confirm this view. How could it be otherwise? If academically unprepared white students were admitted to Ivy League schools, they, too, would be set up to fail. Conservatives believe blacks and other minorities are every bit as capable as whites of succeeding as engineers, surgeons, policemen, businessmen, lawyers, and college students. And therefore, lowering standards for blacks is unnecessary as well as insulting. Yet for this belief, conservatives are called racist. The irony, of course, is that those who accuse conservatives of being racist believe blacks and other minorities are not as capable as whites of succeeding and therefore still need affirmative action - almost a half-century after it was first implemented. Let's look at another issue where this contrast between conservatives and those who accuse them of being racist is even more starkly drawn: voter ID. Conservatives say America should require every voter to present an ID when voting, just as European countries do to help keep their elections honest. Are all these democracies racist? Of course not. Yet the accusers say that conservatives who support voter ID are racist. Why do they say this? Because, they argue, it's really a ruse to prevent blacks and other minorities from voting since many of them just aren't capable of acquiring an ID. Can you get more condescending than that? Let's be real. You need an ID to drive, to fly, to buy a beer, even to purchase some cold medicines. Whites can do it, but blacks can't? Tell me again who the racists are? One more example: it's conservatives who push for school choice, which would allow all parents, not just wealthy ones, to decide where their children attend school. Tuition vouchers, charter schools - these are conservative initiatives. Those on the left fight these reforms at every turn. It's the left that doesn't trust minority parents to select an appropriate school for their children. Why aren't the people who keep black children in failing schools the racists? At some point, maybe you'll start asking yourself, like I did: Who's really obsessed with race? The left or the right? And whose policies really hurt blacks? Maybe it's not who you think it is. I'm Derryck Green of Project 21 for Prager University.
[music] What's up guys, this is Will Wit with PragerU, today we're at the annual 420 festival here, celebrating weed and legalization of weed in Denver, Colorado. We're talking to people today about socialism and free health care. Let's do it. So why are you guys here today? -- To just celebrate f**king 420, dude. ...f**king yeah. -- What do you guys think about free healthcare? -- I think it should be a thing. [laughs] -- Yeah, I mean who wouldn't...who wouldn't want that? I dunno. Yeah, who wouldn't want that? -- Who do you guys think would pay for the free health care? -- 'Couldn't tell ya, I don't know enough about politics, unfortunately. -- [laughs] -- You guys think we should have free healthcare? -- Yes, most definitely because... ...some people aren't able to afford it. So, I mean it'll be beneficial, mostly to them, but to people also in America. -- We should definitely f**king have it. ...like, we should definitely f**king have it, it's a necessity nowadays, so. -- I'm a combat veteran. So, like, my health care is taken care of by the VA. I believe, though, that we all are entitled to health care. Other countries are doing it and it's working, so... ...wake up, join the 21st century. -- Question: when you see, like, the VA and how they handle healthcare, they don't do a great job with it...um... ...you think it would be better with, like, the free market handling that? Or with, like, the government trying to handle that? -- I don't actually know. That's a good question because the government does make a complete cluster of the VA. You know, I've been trying to get an appointment for seven months, so. -- And I'm an author. -- You're an author? -- Yeah, I wrote the e-book "Revolution or Extinction". -- What do you guys think about socialism? -- Um, I mean, I think it's really, like, a good thing to like, you know have and like do, you know socialize with, like, a lot of people. And like meet a lot of people, you know, so, I don't know... ...I think it's like a good thing in life to, like, introduce yourself to people and like, talk. -- We're social- we're socializing right now. -- Oh, yeah, yeah. Right. -- You don't like my haircut? -- It has a lot of potential... S**t is boring like a Republican. -- [Will laughs] -- You young, my n***a. Know what I'm sayin'? -- That's true. -- Republican haircut. -- That's true, I don't want to look like a Republican. Like Bernie Sanders wants socialism, Ocasio-Cortes, some other people... ...what do you guys think about that? Is it a good idea? Socialism in America? -- I think so, yeah, I think it's just stigmatized based from, like, from history, but if we incorpora--incorporate some aspects of it and still keep, you know, a democracy... um...because it's like a form of our economy. So if we merge the two, I think it could work! -- So we should stop looking at like Russia and all those countries and look to the future. What do you think about Socialism in Colorado in America? -- I think we have to have socialism now. -- Having democratic socialism make sense. It's really about helping... people in our society; if we have money for war, why wouldn't we have money to help our citizens? -- How do you guys feel about the direction Denver is heading in? -- Uhhhhhh... ...I don't know, I'm just like, you know, whatever happens, happens. -- Bringing your kids to a 420 festival. Nice. [laughs] What do you think about socialism? Good idea? -- I don't know if it'd be a good idea for us... but let's try it. -- All right guys-- [gags on weed air] We just finished up here at the 420 festival here in Denver, and we found that everyone we talked to wanted socialism and free health care. The education system is not doing a very good job here in Denver. This is my home state, and it's very sad to see that. So thank you guys for watching. We appreciate it, [Jamaican accent] Stay cool mon! Like this video, share with your friends, and see ya in the next one. Peace.
I am a citizen of Denmark, the Disneyland of socialism, where everybody is happy and healthy. Forget the Soviet Union, Cuba, Venezuela and all those power-mad Marxists who got it wrong. Denmark is the model to follow. There's just one problem. It's a fantasy. For it to be true, Denmark would have to be a socialist country. But it's not. If it were, it would have gone Venezuela a long time ago. Sorry to bring all the new fans of socialism the bad news. But that's the reality. Yes, it's true that Denmark has high taxes and a high level of government spending - key features of a socialist mentality. But in almost every other respect, Denmark is a full-on free market capitalist country. And it has some of the strongest protections of individual property rights in the world. And it's a particularly easy place to open a business. According to the World Bank, there is less bureaucratic red tape in Denmark than in any other country, except for New Zealand and Singapore. And the labor market is less regulated than in most countries. Here's something you probably didn't know: there are no minimum wage laws in Denmark. It's not surprising then - or maybe it is surprising, given all the misinformation out there - that Denmark ranks consistently as one of the top-ranked free market economies in the world by The Fraser Institute in Canada and The Heritage Foundation. So, if Denmark is not a socialist country, what is it? The answer is pretty straightforward: it's a small capitalist country (about the size and population of Maryland) whose citizens pay oodles in taxes in exchange for oodles in benefits. Well, what's wrong with that? you might ask. Only this: for the government to pay out such benefits, you need citizens to make enough money to pay the necessary taxes. And that's only possible through a free market economy. Let me explain - with some Danish history. Denmark, like its Scandinavian neighbors, Sweden and Norway, made a remarkable economic recovery after the Second World War. The combination of a highly productive work force and - get this - low taxes created a lot of wealth. So like every other wealthy welfare state, Denmark became wealthy before it created the welfare state. Relative to Europe, Denmark's economic high-water mark was in the 1950s; relative to the US, it was the early 70s. It was then, in the late '60s and early '70s, that the country's ruling elite became preoccupied with wealth redistribution. But the price paid for this social experiment was steep and swift. The expansion of public spending led to a severe economic crisis. The national debt skyrocketed. It took decades of consolidation, structural reforms and curtailing of welfare schemes to straighten out this mess. This is the stuff you never hear about from the Danish model crowd. The sharp tax hikes and spending also sparked a widespread popular revolt and led to the emergence of the tax protestors party, Fremskridtspartiet. Even though the party no longer exists, the widespread desire to cut taxes remains. It's worth noting that the welfare state originally began with government pension payments to the elderly. These social security-like payments are now in the process of being overtaken by private pension savings plans - the Danish equivalent to a 401K. That's right - in reality, Denmark is gradually moving away from US-style social security. It can't afford it. Denmark, the so-called socialist model, is returning the responsibility for retirement savings back to its citizens. And what about health carefree - right? Nothing is free. Danes pay for their health care through high taxes. Private health insurance is available, however. It's becoming more and more popular as long wait times associated with government-run medical care becomes less and less popular. But in a welfare state, education is free - right? Well, that's another thing about free: it doesn't mean ideal. Almost one in five parents in Denmark chooses to send his or her children to private schools, paying part of the bill themselves. Yes, college is free, and even includes a living allowance, but there is a growing problem of getting students to graduate. Many wish to stay students and be supported by the state - one of those welfare-state problems socialists don't like to talk about. And, again, all this free stuff comes with a price. The average Dane pays 50% of his income in consumption and income taxes - that's right, I said 50% - while earning 15% less than the average American. After taxes, an average American has a 27% higher disposable income than a Dane. Don't get me wrong - grey winters aside, Denmark has much to recommend it. It's just that being a socialist paradise isn't one of them. I'm Otto Brons-Petersen, economist for The Center of Political Studies in Copenhagen, Denmark, for Prager University.
If you want to control people's thoughts, begin by controlling their words. That's totalitarian thinking. It was once completely foreign to America. Not anymore. Increasingly, Americans are forced to use language against their will or even their conscience, or be prepared to suffer the consequences. And those consequences can be dire. Take for example, the issue of transgenderism, the newest civil rights battle of our time. A decade ago, few people could even tell you what the word transgender meant. Today, expressing the wrong opinion on the issue can cost you your business or job or both. Consider recent state and local actions punishing those who decline to use an individual's pronouns of choice. In 2017, California Gov. Jerry Brown signed legislation threatening jail time for health-care professionals who willfully and repeatedly refuse to use a patient's preferred pronouns. Under guidelines issued in 2015 by New York City's Commission on Human Rights, employers, landlords and business owners who intentionally use the wrong pronouns with transgender workers and tenants face potential fines of as much as $250,000. That's a steep price for saying he instead of she or she instead of he or even he or she instead of they. What about the vast majority of citizens who hold the biology-based view that chromosomes determine your sex male or female? Or those who have a deep-seated religious conviction that sex is both biological and binary, God's purposeful creation. In December 2018, Peter Vlaming, was fired from his job as a French language teacher in a Virginia school district because he refused to refer to a transgender student by the student's preferred pronouns. Vlaming's Christian belief prevented him from bowing before the notion that the student who had been a she' in his class the year before was now suddenly a he.' Vlaming was willing to use the student's chosen new name, but he avoided using any pronouns when referring to this student. That wasn't good enough for the school district; they needed to hear him say the words. You don't have to be religious to believe that one person can never be a they. The Supreme Court has clearly decided that compelled speech is not Free Speech. In West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette (1943), the Supreme Court upheld the students' right to refuse to salute an American flag. Justice Robert Jackson wrote: If there is any fixed star in our constitutional constellation, it is that no official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, religion or other matters of opinion And, Jackson went on to say, the state can't force people to say things they don't believe. But this is precisely what's happening. People are forced to refer to others as ze, co, or thon yes those are now considered pronouns. What might otherwise be a courtesy now has criminal consequences. In most contexts, I would have no problem addressing others in any manner they chose, and I'm sure most Americans feel the same. But the Constitution's protection of free speech neither begins nor ends with good manners. It extends all the way from rudeness to meekness, protecting those who hurl insults and those who would prefer to say nothing at all. If the state can compel the use of certain words, it can force those who differ into silence. It can force its citizens to parrot beliefs they do not hold. The Fairfax County School District in Virginia removed the phrase biological gender from its curriculum and replaced it with the phrase sex assigned at birth. This is how the left legislates away the concept of biological sex without ever having to make the argument. Without ever having to convince anyone. They're trying to make sex assigned at birth' as trivial and malleable as name assigned at birth' - as if some doctor arbitrarily chose for you on the day you were born. To the extent that the transgender movement seeks to promote compassion for those who struggle with their biological sex, we should be grateful for it. To the extent that it seeks to use government power to regulate our perspectives - commanding that we ignore biology and common sense - we should resist it. This is no small issue. The Constitution guarantees Freedom of Speech so that political issues can be worked out in the public square. But the activist left doesn't want that conversation to occur. They want to force the adoption of their conclusions before the argument even begins. Compelled speech is the tactic they've chosen. It's unconstitutional. It's undemocratic. And it's wrong. If gender activists prevail, we may be left with a world we neither recognize nor like very much. We won't be able to communicate our displeasure. We will have lost the words. I'm Abigail Shrier for Prager University.
Western civilization. It's been around for a while, but suddenly everybody is talking about it. Some are anxious to save it; others are happy to see it go. But what exactly is Western civilization? Is it the great cathedrals of Europe or the Nazi concentration camps? Is it the freedoms secured in the US Constitution or chattel slavery? Life-saving medicines or poison gas? The left likes to focus on the bad - genocide, slavery, environmental destruction. But those have been present in every civilization from time immemorial. The positives are unique to the West. Religious tolerance, abolition of slavery, universal human rights, the development of the scientific method: these are accomplishments of a scope and scale that only the West can claim. These aren't the only achievements that make the West special and uniquely successful. As Western thought evolved, it secured the rights of women and minorities, lifted billions of people out of poverty, and invented most of the modern world. Progress hasn't been a straight line, of course. But the arc of history is clear. The obvious proof is that the world is overwhelmingly Western. And, with few exceptions, those parts of the world that aren't aspire to be. Why? Why has Western Civilization been so successful? There are many reasons, but the best place to start is with the teachings and philosophies that emerged from two ancient cities: Jerusalem and Athens. Jerusalem represents religious revelation as manifested in the Judeo-Christian tradition: the beliefs that a good God created an ordered universe and that this God demands moral behavior from His paramount creation, man. The other city, Athens, represents reason and logic as expressed by the great Greek thinkers Plato and Aristotle and many others. These two ways of thinking - revelation and reason - live in constant tension. Judeo-Christian religion posits that there are certain fundamental truths handed down to us by a transcendent being. We didn't invent these truths; we received them from God. The rules He lays down for us are vital for building a functioning, moral civilization and for leading a happy life. Greek thinking posits that we only know truth by what we observe, test, and measure. It is not faith, but fact, that drives our understanding and exploration of the universe. Western civilization, and only Western civilization, has found a way to balance both religious belief and human reason. Here's how the balance works. The Judeo-Christian tradition teaches that God created an ordered universe, and that we have an obligation to try to make the world better. This offers us purpose and suggests that history moves forward. Most pagan religions taught the opposite: that the universe is illogical and random, and that history is cyclical. History just endlessly repeats itself - in which case, why bother to innovate or create anything new? Second, Judeo-Christian tradition teaches that every human is created in the image of God; that is, each individual's life is infinitely valuable. This seems self-evident to us now, but only because we have lived with this belief for so long. The far more natural belief is that the strong should subjugate the weak - which is precisely what people did in nearly every society in all of history. Only by recognizing the divine in others did we ever move beyond this amoral thinking toward the concern for human rights, democracy and free enterprise that characterize the West. But Judeo-Christian religion alone didn't build our modern civilization. We also required Greek reason to teach us objective observation: that man has the capacity to search beyond revelation for answers. Greek reason brought us the notion of the natural law: the idea that we could discover the natural purpose - the telos - of everything in creation by looking to its character. Human beings were created with the unique capacity to reason; therefore, our telos was to reason. By investing reason with so much power, Greek thought became integral to the Western mission. Nowhere is this more perfectly expressed than in the American Revolution in which the Founding Fathers took the best of the European Enlightenment with its roots in Greek thought and the best of Judeo-Christian practice with its roots in the Bible and melded them into a whole new political philosophy. Without Judeo-Christian values, we fall into scientific materialism - the belief that physical matter is the only reality - and therefore also fall into nihilism - the belief that life has no meaning, that we're merely stellar dust in a cold universe. Without Greek reason, we fall into fanaticism - the belief that fundamentalist adherence to unprovable principles represents the only path toward meaning. The Soviet Union, Communist China and other socialist tyrannies rejected faith and murdered 100 million people in the 20th century. Much of the modern Muslim world has embraced faith but rejected reason. It's noteworthy that when the Muslim world did embrace Greek reason from the 8th to the 14th centuries, it was a leading center for scientific advancement. So, again, we need both. Jerusalem and Athens. Revelation and reason. And yet many want to reject both. These people call themselves progressives. Ironically, they want to take us backwards, to a time when man was governed neither by reason nor faith, but by feeling, and therefore back to a time of moral chaos and disorder, of feeling over fact. It would be a fatal mistake to follow the progressives. Stick with Athens and Jerusalem. I'm Ben Shapiro, editor of The Daily Wire and author of The Right Side of History, for Prager University.
The most famous fire in American history happened in Chicago on October 8, 1871. But it's not the fire that is so remarkable. It's what happened afterwards. To understand why, we first need to know something about the city's history. In 1840, Chicago was a small town of forty-five hundred souls. It ranked 92nd in population in the United States. Yet, only three decades later, by 1870 - just a year before the great fire - Chicago was closing in on a population of 300,000, making it the fifth-biggest city in America and the fastest growing city in the world. What led to all this rapid growth? In three words: location, location, location. Chicago was near the center of the country, and near where the waterways and railways met, city historian Tim Samuelson notes. It was a perfect place for anything and anyone to get anywhere Timing had a lot to do with it, too. America was moving from a rural to an industrial power. Chicago was right in the middle of the action. Ironically, its rapid growth was almost its undoing. [Chicago] had to build and build quickly, and so they built it out of wood, explained Sarah Marcus of the Chicago History Museum. It was quick, it was easy, and it was cheap. And, as it turned out, very flammable. By most accounts, the fire started on the city's West Side, near the De Koven Street barn of Patrick and Catherine O'Leary. No one is sure of the cause, but it could have been anything, from vandals to a drunken neighbor to that clumsy cow of urban legend. Within minutes, the blaze roared out of control, tearing through Chicago's business district. The fire was so hot, it created its own tornado of flame. By 3:30 a.m., all hope of saving large parts of the city was gone. Nearly 30 hours later, the fire finally died. The reason? There was nothing left to burn. The losses were staggering: The fire claimed nearly 300 lives, destroyed over 17,000 buildings covering almost 3.5 square miles, and caused damage of over $200 million about 3.8 billion today. Roughly a third of the city lay in ruins, and one out every three people living in Chicago - nearly 100,000 residents - became homeless overnight. All the law offices were destroyed, all the major hotels were destroyed, all the major department stores were destroyed, and all the major banks were destroyed, Chicago Weather historian Tom Skilling notes. In those days, there were no national or state agencies to help. Chicago was on its own. What was to be done? To most of Chicago citizens, the answer was obvious: Rebuild. Make the city better than ever. Yes, there were many victims of the fire, but there was no sense of victimhood. Even before the bricks stopped smoking, the people of Chicago went to work. First, the damage had to be assessedthe death and destruction were obvious. But there were some major pluses as well. The stockyards and meat packing plants had been spared. Two-thirds of the grain elevators survived. And most importantly, the railway and rail stock escaped major damage. This was critical because it would allow shipments of building materials and private relief aid to come pouring in from across the country and around the world. The banking community quickly rallied. Within 48 hours, 12 of the 29 banks that had burned to the ground were operating in makeshift facilities. Merchants large and small immediately set up temporary shops. Local financier Henry Greenbaum sent letters to investment bankers all over the globe. This wasn't the time to give up on the city; it was the time, he told them, to buy in. Many agreed. Among them were creative young architects attracted to the nearly blank slate the city presented to them. They would raise a new city from a new productsteel. Their work, praised and copied all over the world, came to be known as the Chicago School. By 1890, only 20 years after the fire, Chicago's population passed the one-million mark, becoming the second-biggest city in America. The population had more than tripled since the Windy City's darkest night. Why is this all important to know? Because the government didn't rebuild Chicago. Chicago rebuilt Chicago. And with astonishing speed and energy. A can-do spirit, devotion to community and free market capitalism made it happen. It's impossible to look at this achievement without admiration and more than a bit of nostalgia. Could we summon that same spirit today? Yes. We can. But only if we proudly retell stories like this one that remind us the greatness of America is not a product of government, but a product of self-government, empowered citizens pursuing their own best interests. I'm Lee Habeeb host of Our American Stories for Prager University.
If what I am about to tell you is true, almost everything we most treasure freedom, beauty, reason, the family, economic well-being, and even goodness is in jeopardy. Who or what poses this threat? The answer is the most powerful ideology of the last hundred years: leftism. Not liberalism; leftism or, if you prefer, progressivism. Leftism destroys everything it touches. Here are a just a few examples: 1. The universities Perhaps the most obvious example one that many liberals acknowledge is the left's near destruction of most universities as places of learning. In the words of Harvard professor Steven Pinker an atheist and a liberal because of the left, universities are becoming laughing stocks of intolerance. At almost every university and now high schools and even elementary schools students are taught to shut down not debate those who differ with them. And to rely on feelings rather than reason. 2. The arts Throughout history, the primary purpose of art was to elevate people through beauty, artistic excellence, and emotional depth. To the left, the primary purpose of art, sculpture, and music is to shock. That's why so much contemporary art is meaningless, and involves the scatological, meaning urine and feces. Yes, urine and feces. To give one of countless examples, in 2016, the Guggenheim Museum in New York featured a pure-gold working toilet, which visitors were invited to use. The name of the exhibit was America" so one could literally relieve oneself on America. 3. Literature The English department at the University of Pennsylvania replaced the portrait of the greatest English-language writer who ever lived, William Shakespeare, with a picture of a black lesbian poet. Why? Because he was a white European male. Leftist professors have replaced the pursuit of excellence with the pursuit of diversity. 4. Late-night television In America, late-night television shows were completely apolitical. The hosts believed their role was to entertain viewers and offer them relief and laughter after a difficult day. No longer. You cannot watch late-night television if you just want to be entertained. Late-night TV is now left-night TV. 5. Religion The left has ruined much of mainstream Protestantism and Catholicism, and non-Orthodox Judaism, which are now little more than left-wing organizations with religious symbols. In many churches and synagogues, one is more likely to hear the clergy talk about political issues than about any other subject, including even the Bible. 6. Free Speech If there was anything virtually every American considered a bedrock value, it was freedom of speech. Yet, the left is destroying even this unique American achievement. Almost half of America's young people say they believe in free speech but not for hate speech. Yet, the whole point of free speech is that it allows people to express any political or social position, including what any one of us considers hate speech. And hate speech now means any position the left differs with. 7. Race America has become the least racist multi-racial society in world history. On a daily basis, Americans of every race and ethnicity get along superbly. But the left constantly poisons young minds with angry diatribes about systemic racism, micro aggressions, and white privilege. 8. The Boy Scouts The left is destroying the Boy Scouts. They're not even the Boy Scouts anymore; they're just the Scouts. The left forced them to admit girls. Here's the thing about the left: it only destroys. It doesn't build. The Boy Scouts have helped shape tens of millions of boys into independent, strong, good men. So where is the left-wing version of the Boy Scouts? It doesn't exist. There is none. 9. Male-female In some ways scariest of all, the left is committed to ending male and female as distinct categories. Children are increasingly raised not to think of themselves as a boy or a girl. Teachers are told not to refer to their students as boys or girls, just students. In New York City, parents do not have to check off male or female on their newborn's birth certificate. They can check off x. All this imposed gender confusion can only end up producing confused people and a confused society. So why does the left engage in so much destruction? Because it thinks America is essentially a bad country. But America is only bad compared to Utopia. And the left is utopian. I'm Dennis Prager.
Year after year, Americans pour billions of dollars into colleges and universities. I'm not talking about the outrageous tuition costs, living expenses, and fees the debt pit students fall into. And I'm not talking about the tax money our money colleges and universities get from federal and state governments. I'm talking about the money Americans are handing over to these institutions of their own free will. In 2017, that number was $44 billion. $44 billion in donations in one year from alumni and other donors. And for what? To enhance the education of America's youth? Do you really think our college graduates are better educated, more literate, more versed in classical philosophy and American history than they were ten, twenty, or fifty years ago? If your child goes to college and spends four years partying, skipping class, and playing video games, consider yourself lucky. It's when they actually listen to their radical professors that you're in trouble. So what have our institutions been doing with all this money? Well, the University of Michigan's Vice Provost of Equity and Inclusion makes $400,000 a year. The university spends close to eleven million dollars annually on diversity and inclusion staff and programs, according to a recent report. What do you think Vice Provosts of Equity and Inclusion (and almost all schools have one now) do all day? They, and the small armies they supervise, spend all day, every day, looking for racism, sexism, classism, Islamophobia, homophobia, transphobia and any other phobias they can dream up. If they don't find some bias somewhere, they're out of a job. So, guess what? They find it even where it doesn't exist. The University of California at Santa Cruz now has an "activist-in-residence." His job is to mint new leftist activists as if we have a shortage. Why are we voluntarily giving billions and billions of dollars to hopelessly corrupt institutions that overcharge, underdeliver and undermine the most basic values of Western Civilization? We should be starving this beast. Instead, we're feeding it. Are there exceptions to this rule? Colleges that are actually dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge and wisdom? Of course, there are and they are worthy of your financial support. But you can count them on two hands. The rest have a different mission. And they have more than enough coin to carry it out. The aforementioned University of Michigan has an endowment of 12 billion dollars. But that's small potatoes compared to Yale's $30 billion or Harvard's $40 billion. And donors keep giving them more. It's time to stop. You'd be better throwing your money into a bonfire. That's just a waste. But when you donate to your average university, you're actually hurting your society. You're the reason kids maybe your kids are coming home: Loving socialism and hating free market capitalism; Believing male and female don't objectively exist; Excusing rockets being shot into Israel, then blaming Israel for defending itself; Romanticizing Che Guevara and reviling George Washington; And dismissing America, arguably the most decent country ever created, as racist, genocidal, imperialist, white-supremacist, hate-filled, and misogynistic. Your children are being fed a steady diet of this nihilism in grade school, middle school, and high school. But they have to come home for dinner every night. College is where the leftist deal is sealed. They're free of your influence and under the sway of their leftist professors and leftist peers. Stop supporting institutions that don't support your values; that, in fact, despise your values. And, believe me, they despise you when you're back is turned. The only thing they love about you is your money. Oh, you might say, I would never give money for all that diversity, equity, and inclusion nonsense! I designate my donations to the business school or the medical center. If you think that, you're fooling yourself. Money is fungible. You can designate it for anything you want, but you can't control what the university does with it. I travel around the country every week trying to rescue kids from the leftist cult that is college. It's bad enough that I have to battle administrators, professors, and leftist student bodies. I shouldn't have to fight you, too. College has become a big business. Most indoctrinate rather than educate. The best way to force them to change is to take away their cash. Your cash. Start today. I'm Charlie Kirk, founder and president of Turning Point USA, for Prager University.
Have you ever pushed a beach ball underwater? What happens? It pops right back up! Because of its nature, a beach ball will not stay submerged. The same is true for men and women. Each has a distinct nature that will always rise to the surface. Simply put, men and women are different. They look different. They have different body parts. Different biology. Different hormones. They express emotions differently. They have different needs and desires. Now, if you told that to your great-grandmother who never went to college, never used an iPhone, never used social media, she would have asked, Why are you telling me something so obvious? But if you said the same thing to a graduate student in sociology or anthropology, let alone gender studies, they'd say you were wrong. Men and women are basically the same, the grad student would say. Sexuality exists on a spectrum. It's determined by people's internal feelings. Between great-granny and the gender studies PhD, I'm going with granny and her common sense. To believe that men and women are basically the same is to believe a delusion. A delusion is a belief that contradicts reality. You can say you're Napoleon, but that doesn't make you Napoleon. You can try to socialize girls into behaving like boys or boys into behaving like girls, but it won't work. You can push the beach ball underwater, but not for long. New York pediatrician George Lazarus tells the story of a couple who didn't want their young daughter to conform to the usual pink and blue stereotype. So they bought her a set of toy trucks. The father went to her room to check on her, and she told him to be quiet - the trucks were sleeping. A similar story about his twin daughters pretending their daddy truck was carrying the baby truck was told by the former president of Harvard University, Lawrence Summers. Give a little boy a truck - or just about any other object - and sooner or later he will turn it into a weapon. That's reality. Believing delusions makes people say and do foolish, self-destructive things. Here's an example: If men and women are basically the same, they want the same things from sex - right? But this isn't true. Women tend to be far more selective about partners with whom they choose to be intimate. That's female nature. Men tend to be, shall we say, far less discerning. That's male nature. Once, this was considered common sense. Nobody had to go to graduate school or do an academic study to figure it out. But now everything is upside down. We're trying to push the beach ball under water. Today, male and female college students who, 50 years ago, lived in separate buildings and had supervised curfews, now share the same dorm rooms and even the same bathrooms. And sex - well, it's just another form of college entertainment. It means nothing and has no consequences - emotionally, psychologically, or physically. But, certainly as far as most women are concerned, this just isn't true. If sex doesn't mean anything, why would any woman feel violated by an uninvited touch? Do you think a man whose leg is touched by a woman he doesn't know feels as violated as a woman does when her leg is touched by a man she doesn't know? If sex doesn't mean anything, why did Jennifer Lawrence say to the Hollywood Reporter after filming an intimate scene with her co-star, Chris Pratt, in the movie Passengers: I knew it was my job, but I couldn't tell my stomach that That was the most vulnerable I've ever been. She felt vulnerable in that scene, but not in others, because she knows even acting out in a movie scene, sex is a big deal. That's one of many reasons it has traditionally been confined to marriage. And why experience and research show that sex within marriage is more satisfying emotionally, psychologically, and physically - not to mention spiritually - than sex outside of marriage. Anyone who tells you that men and women are basically the same and that sex means as little to women as it can to many men is not telling you the truth. They're making stuff up. They're pushing an agenda - theirs, not yours. So, trust granny. Trust common sense. And remember the beach ball. I'm Sean McDowell, Associate Professor of Theology and Philosophy at Biola University, for Prager University.
Capitalism versus Socialism. We can sum up each economic system in one line. Capitalism is based on human greed. Socialism is based on human need. Right? No. Wrong. So wrong, it's exactly backwards. And I'll prove it to you. Been on Amazon lately? Each of the thousands of products Amazon offers represents the work of people who believe they have something you want or need. If they're right, they prosper. If they're wrong, they don't. That's how the free market works. It encourages people to improve their lives by satisfying the needs of others. No one starts a business making a thing or providing a service for themselves. They start a business to make things or provide services for others. I speak from personal experience. When I was the CEO of the company that owns Carl's Jr. and Hardee's restaurant chains, we spent millions of dollars every year trying to determine what customers wanted. If our customers didn't like something we changed it and fast because if we didn't our competitors would, pun intended, eat us for lunch. The consumer that's you -- has the ultimate power. In effect, you vote with every dollar you spend. In a socialist economy, the government has the ultimate power. It decides what you get from a limited supply it decides should exist. Instead of millions of people making millions of decisions about what they want, a few people - government elites - decide what people should have and how much they should pay for it. Not surprisingly, they always get it wrong. Have you ever noticed that late-stage socialist failures always run out of essential items like toilet paper? Of course, this isn't a problem for those who have the right connections with the right people. Those chosen few get whatever they want. But everyone else is out of luck. Venezuela, once, the richest country in South America, is the most recent example of socialism driving a prosperous country into an economic ditch. Maybe you think it's an unfair example. I'm not sure why, but okay. We'll ignore the fact that Leftist activists celebrated it as a great socialist success right up until it wasn't. But what about Western European countries? Don't they have socialist economies? People seem pretty happy there. Why can't we have what they have free health care, free college, stronger unions? Good question. And the answer may surprise you. There are no socialist countries in Western Europe. Most are just as capitalist as the United States. The only difference -- and it's a big one -- is that they offer more government benefits than the US does. We can argue about the costs of these benefits and the point at which they reduce individual initiative, thus doing more harm than good. Scandinavians have been debating those questions for years. But only a free market, capitalist economy can produce the wealth necessary to sustain all of the supposedly free stuff Europeans enjoy. To get the free stuff, after all, you have to create enough wealth to generate enough tax revenue to pay for everything the government gives away. Without capitalism, you're Venezuela. In a 2015 speech at Harvard, Denmark's prime minister took great pains to make this point: I know that some people in the U.S. associate the Nordic model with socialism, therefore I would like to make one thing clear. Denmark is far from a socialist planned economy. Denmark is a market economy. So, when you point to Denmark as a paragon of socialism, you're really singing the praises of capitalism. The more capitalism, the less socialism you need. Look at America since 2017. A policy of lower taxes and less government regulation (that's more capitalism) has led to a robust economic expansion, something thought impossible just a few years earlier. Unemployment, notably among minority groups typically most at risk for poverty, is at a generational low. Economic expansion gets people off welfare and into work (that's less socialism). None of this requires a degree in economics. Common sense is all you need. That'swhy it's so frustrating to see young people praising socialism and criticizing capitalism. It's bad enough that they're working against their own interest better job prospects, better wages, personal freedom -- but they are also working against the interest of the less fortunate. Capitalism leads to economic democracy. Socialism leads to the economic dictatorship of the elite. Always. And everywhere. So, beware what you ask for. You just might get it. I'm Andy Puzder, author of The Capitalist Comeback, for Prager University.
Can you imagine, in this day and age, an educational institution discriminating against a racial minority? Can you imagine what the outcry would be? You mean, you're preventing these qualified students from attending your college because of the color of their skin?! Well, you don't have to imagine it. It's happening. And at arguably the most prestigious college in America - my alma mater, Harvard. The ethnic minority isn't blacks or Jews, as it was in years past. The target this time is Asian Americans. And it's just as wrong. After millions of dollars in legal fees, millions of records examined, and hundreds of hours of depositions and testimony, Harvard's once purposely opaque admissions policies have been laid bare. It's not a pretty picture. Here's what we now know: Harvard Admissions rates student applicants in three main ways: 1) Academic performance; 2) Extra-curricular achievements; 3) Personal qualities. That's fine, as far as it goes, if the criteria were applied fairly. But they're not. Asian American applicants consistently score higher in the first two criteria - academics and extra-curricular activities, which can be objectively assessed - than white students, Latinos and African Americans. So how does Harvard justify its Asian American quota? With the help of category three - personal qualities, which include vague and largely subjective factors like likability, maturity, integrity, and effervescence. According to Harvard's own internal reports, Asian American applicants are routinely and systematically marked much lower on this personality scale by Harvard admissions officers who almost never meet or interview applicants. But here's the kicker: the personality ratings given to Asian students by admissions officers are vastly different than the personality ratings Harvard gets from its own alumni interviewers, who actually meet the applicants in person. Alumni interviewers score Asian applicants as high as whites. In other words, Harvard artificially and fraudulently downgrades Asians on personality to get the results it wants. And what Harvard wants is to suppress the number of Asian Americans admitted. Based on the data that Harvard was forced to turn over, economist Peter Arcidiacono of Duke University concluded that with the same application profile in terms of test scores, extracurricular activities and personality factors, an Asian American male applicant would only have a 25% chance of admission - versus 32% if white, 77% if Hispanic, and 95% if black. What's the real-life result of all this? In 2013, Asian Americans made up 19% of the incoming freshmen class. According to Harvard's own Office of Institutional Research, if the personality factors had not been rigged, that percentage would have been 43%. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 guarantees that No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color or national origin, be excluded from participation in, or be denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. Each year, Harvard takes hundreds of millions of dollars from the federal government. In Grutter v. Bollinger, the Supreme Court upheld the University of Michigan Law School's affirmative action policies, deciding that race could be used as a plus factor to achieve diversity, but never as a quota. Yet, by placing strict limits on the percentage of Asian American applicants it will admit, racial quotas are exactly what Harvard is using. One strongly suspects this quota system isn't limited to Harvard. In the last ten years, Asian American students have been limited to an 18-22% presence across the Ivy League. Or maybe that's just a coincidence. Writing for the majority in Grutter v. Bollinger in 2003, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote that the Court expects that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today. With less than a decade to go, the Ivy League shows no indication that it's giving up on those racial preferences. Instead, these colleges have doubled down. Objective standards regarding admissions continue to be increasingly disfavored as the illegal goal of racial balancing is advanced. This racial balancing is justified by the left's desire to achieve racial diversity - its insistence on seeing every person only through the prism of race, as if the most important thing any of us has to offer is the color of our skin. Not long ago, that was called racism. It's still called racism. It needs to end, once and for all - for the sake of deserving Asian American students, for the sake of Harvard's own integrity, and for the sake of the American principle that the rules must be the same for everyone. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court John Roberts said it best: The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race. It's time we did just that. I'm Lee Cheng, of the Asian American Legal Foundation, for Prager University.
It's hard to imagine there would have been a United States of America without George Washington. He was there at the birth of the nation. He successfully guided it through war and nurtured it in peace. How did he do it? Not by being a great general, a potent political theorist, or even a clever politician. He was none of those things. And yet, he was admired by generals, political theorists and politicians. Why? Because he was a man great men trusted. Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, James Madison and so many others looked up to him - literally. He was one of the tallest men of his era at six-foot-three. Add courage, integrity, and wisdom, and you have a truly impressive figure. Let's start with his courage. That was never in doubt. If anything, he had too much of it. Bold to the point of rashness as a young man, he fought for the British against the French over control of the Ohio Valley, then the Western-most point of the American wilderness. Throughout that conflict, known as the French and Indian War, and the American Revolution, Washington was always in the thick of the action. His aides often struggled to keep him from surging too far ahead of his own troops. In one battle, his coat was pierced four times by musket fire. Horses were shot out from under him. Amazingly, some would say miraculously, he was never wounded - not so much as a flesh wound. By the time the revolution broke out in April of 1775, Washington was firmly committed to the cause of American independence. He arrived in Philadelphia in May of that year to offer his services to the Continental Congress. He was quickly made commander of the new rebel army. There was only one problem: there was no army to speak of. There was just a rag-tag collection of state militias. How was Washington going to defeat the greatest military force in the world with that? It was a problem the general struggled with for eight and a half years. That he managed to hold the army together, organize it into a disciplined fighting force and guide it to victory was testament to his fortitude, his patience, and his personal bravery. Of his integrity, one need only to look at what he did when the war ended: exactly what he promised to do when the war began. He resigned his military command and went home to Mt. Vernon. By stepping down, Washington raised himself up as the embodiment of republican heroism. It is said that King George III asked the London-based American painter Benjamin West what Washington was likely to do when peace came. West replied that Washington would probably return to his farm. The king was astounded. If he does that, His Majesty declared, he will be the greatest man in the world! This story may be apocryphal, but the Newburgh Rebellion, and how Washington handled it, is not. With experience had come wisdom. As the revolution wound down, a group of officers refused to give up their arms until they were paid. If they didn't get their money, which Congress didn't have, they would take control of the government. It was not an idle threat. No less a figure than Alexander Hamilton was in a panic. Washington, no great orator, sought to defuse their anger. They had risked everything to create a republican society, he told the officers. To abandon the cause now, when true victory was so close, would mean all their sacrifices would have been in vain. However convincing the speech may have been, it was a simple gesture that carried the day. He concluded his remarks by reading to them a letter sent to him from a member of Congress. Suddenly, he stopped. From his pocket, he pulled a pair of spectacles. None of the officers had ever seen him wear them. Putting the glasses on, Washington said, Gentlemen, you must pardon me. I have grown gray in the service of my country and now find myself going blind. He finished reading the letter and left the hall without another word. The gesture, sincerely offered with just the right touch of stagecraft, pierced the hearts of his men. Many were moved to tears. They immediately passed a resolution declaring their loyalty to civilian government. George Washington had saved the revolution once again. It wouldn't be the last time. During the writing of the Constitution and during his eight years as President, Washington was repeatedly called upon to hold the fractious young nation together. He never failed to do so. We commonly refer to George Washington now as the father of our country. It's hard to imagine any nation ever had a better one. I'm John Rhodehamel, author of George Washington: The Wonder of the Age, for Prager University.
Race matters, and we need to say so! [Cheering] E Pluribus Unum. From many, one. This country is the least racist, multi-ethnic, multi-racial country in the history of the World. The reason is, we don't give a damn. That's the beauty of it - we don't give a damn. That's the American - you're Black, who cares! You're Hispanic - who cares! You're Asian - who cares! That's the American response! The Left, racist response is "It matters!" Race matters, and we need to say so! So you have this fraudulent claim, "Oh! I have 1/16th Cherokee blood!" This - you know, do you know, as a Jew, I am so afraid of such talk. The last people to go back three generations, two generations to see your bloodline were the Nazis! It frightens me - her talk about her Cherokee high cheek bones frightens me. The left-wing talk about race frightens me.
I am the proud son of immigrants from Bangladesh. I was raised in New York City, which has benefited enormously from the energy and ambition of the millions of people born abroad who've chosen to make it their home. But I also believe that America's immigration system needs to work for America, and right now, that is simply not the case. We need a new immigration system. So what should it be? We're often presented with two stark choices: Severe restrictions or open borders. I think there's a better way. But before I offer a solution, let's look at the usual suspects. The case for open borders is, on the surface, pretty attractive. Tens of millions of people around the world would be grateful to come to America for the chance to live in peace and earn a decent living. The vast majority of them mean us no harm. Why not give them a chance to share in the blessings of liberty? The simple answer is that our country is more than just a marketplace. We're a democracy based on a social contract. Americans pay taxes so that, among other things, the poorest, most unlucky among us can still lead decent and dignified lives. If you can't work, you might be eligible for unemployment benefits or disability. If you do work but your paycheck doesn't go far enough for you to afford medical care or food for your kids, we have a safety net designed to help you stay afloat. Liberals and conservatives disagree on how extensive this safety net ought to be, but they all agree it needs to be there. The question is, how we far are willing to stretch it? A century ago, immigrants who found they couldn't make it in America had little choice but to go back home. That is no longer the case. These days, immigrants who can't earn enough to support their families have access to many government benefits. That doesn't make them bad people. In an age of offshoring and automation, wages for menial jobs don't go very far. If we only admitted a modest number of low-skill immigrants - say, as political refugees - we could easily handle it. But over the past forty years, we have allowed millions of low-skill immigrants into the country, both legally and illegally. While highly-educated immigrants pay far more in taxes than they consume in benefits, the opposite is true of immigrants with less than a high school diploma. Immigrant engineers working for Google, Amazon and Apple do just fine without government help. The immigrant janitors and busboys who serve them struggle to afford housing and to give their kids a decent start in life. Without government aid, many would go hungry. If we were to open our borders, the number of low-skilled immigrants would skyrocket, and so too would the cost of meeting their needs. Ironically, this would only exacerbate the wealth disparity that so animates the open borders crowd. Maybe the rich could wall themselves off in gated communities. But the growing ranks of the poor and even the middle class would have to deal with ever more strained social services. That could provoke resentment strong enough to set off real class warfare. If open borders are a bad idea, so too is severely restricting immigration. For one, immigration has always been part of the American story. And it continues to be an essential source of talent, from Silicon Valley to medicine to pro sports. Why shut ourselves off from the dynamism and energy that immigrants can bring? Thankfully, there is a way to fix this problem. We can modernize the system to give priority to those who have strong skills and job offers - people, in other words, who will pay more in taxes than they need in benefits. Today, we admit about two-thirds of immigrants on the basis of family ties and only 15 percent on the basis of skills. We need a course correction. We should limit family immigration to immediate family members - such as spouses and minor children - while greatly expanding the number of skills-based visas. A skills-based points system would be a huge boon for people around the world looking to live the American Dream. It would give them a predictable, step-by-step guide for how to better their chances at a green card. Just as importantly, by prioritizing immigrants with strong skills, we'd make the safety net much easier to sustain for those with low skills - whom we'd still admit, albeit at a more modest level. Let's announce to the world that if you're ambitious, if you have skills we prize, the golden door is open. If you can support yourself and your family, and add to our economy, we want you. If we aspire to an immigration system that works, this the most realistic - and idealistic - choice. I'm Reihan Salam, Executive editor of National Review, for Prager University.
Thank you again, thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you Thank You Kimo and Let me just say a word that I said on the radio about Kimo he has the trait without which goodness can never prevail and It's the rarest of all the good traits in the human being there are thank God many kind people many nice people many generous many loyal but not many courageous and That's what he has give him a hand because he deserves it Alright everybody so I Want to do something of this evening that is A feature of my radio show and my entire approach to issues One of the mottos of my life and of my work is I prefer clarity to agreement So I would like to provide for you clarity, especially for those of you who don't agree with Most of us who are here tonight I'd like you to at least understand What the debate is about or as I have come to conclude with great sadness I might add there is a civil war in America Thank God it is not violent and may it always not be violent, but the differences between left and right are Enormous and in most cases not bridgeable Either people on the Left will adopt what people on the right believe or vice versa or the civil war will continue But it is our task to at least understand what the differences are So I'd like to go down a whole list then when I'm done I'd like those of you who differ to be the first ones to ask questions or just even state why I'm wrong I have no problem with that. I will not be rude to you Even if you're rude to me But I just want I want people to hear how the objections can be answered That's a very valuable part of my visits to college campuses So since Israel was the first item mentioned I'm gonna go down a list of differences of left and right left believes that Israel is the villain in the Middle East The right believes that Israel is the good guy in the Middle East not the perfect guy Because there are no perfect guys, but the good guy It is an amazing thing to me that there are people who believe Israel is the villain I debated at the famous Oxford forum two years ago, and the subject of the debate was is Israel or Hamas the primary obstacle to peace in the Middle East and There were two there were two PhDs a professor of international relations and a young PhD It was it's two against two with the Oxford forum, and they actually argued that Israel was the greater obstacle to peace and I made it I made a statement which you can see on YouTube until they take it down and You can you can actually see the statement that I made this is the first time if they're right Israel is the greater obstacle it would be the first time in the world history that between a free state and a Totalitarian state or police state. It was the Free State that wanted war and the police state wanted. Peace There is no other example you have to you have to affirm that all rules of morality and Politics have been switched in the Middle East that the bad guy is the Free State and the good guy is the police state it Is it is it is mind boggling it would be as if I said to them in the 30s there would have been a debate here is Nazi Germany or the United Kingdom or Great Britain the greater obstacle to peace in Europe and That would that have been a debate. Of course not how would you know if you knew nothing other than that? Fact how would you know how they wit? How would you know how to vote you would know because Britain was free and Nazi Germany was not free Because it's a one hundred percent people in freedom don't like to die and don't like to kill It's just a given people in police states either like it or have no choice about it secondly the notion of I'm not Anti-jewish. I'm Anti-israel is so perverse as to be laughable it is it is perverse Let me just explain it would be like saying i've used this analogy my whole life it would be like saying I love Italians I love I love Verdi and Puccini and I love Ivaldi and I love Italian art and I love pizza and Italian food but I Believe Italy should be destroyed That is what anti-zionists argue we love Jews, but of all the 220 countries on earth only one is illegitimate and it happens to be the only Jewish one But I is a Jew or I is a non Jew who cares about morality I'm supposed to believe you you just happen to have picked the only Jewish country in the world to be extinct You're a fraud. If you say that you are not real you are fooling yourself at least be honest Every country has a right to exist except the Jewish one 22 Arab countries are legit The one Jewish one is not legit And I'm supposed to believe you have nothing in for Jews because you have a Jewish friend Or because there were Jews who agree with you Of course, there are Jews who agree with you there have been Jews who have hurt Jews all through modern history Trotsky Marx it's Rosa Luxemburg, I mean the list is gigantic Why Jews are the only group to produce people who who hurt their own group more than any other? Americans produce it as well. It's a very interesting thing The only two groups who really do there are no there's no other example of it. Why is a very complex question? I think it has to do with the fact that Jews have been so hurt so so hit so hurt so trampled and tortured for so long that they think That if they are nice to their enemies, they won't be hurt. I truly believe that there is that there's that psychopathological root to Jews who hate Israel There is no other explanation Where they're a blacks for apartheid? What would you think of a black who said you know, I think apart ties great That is the same as Jews who think Hamas is great. There is no difference That is the state of that one clear issue and by the way Churchill, I just finished this reading this thousand page biography of Churchill and The author Andrew Roberts makes a very interesting point Roberts is not a Jew he had no Nothing involved in that rate in that way and he said Churchill understood something Which is why he was the only voice against Hitler from the beginning He understood that the anti Jew is anti human That there is no greater indicator of evil than anti-semitism It is the early warning society for good early warrant warning signal for good people Just know the anti-semite never Begins never ends with the Jews they begin with the Jews, but they never end with the Jews the non-jews who dismissed Hitler as the Jews problem, like people dismissed Hamas and Hezbollah as the as Israel's problem. They don't understand they are next That is the amazing thing of not learning from history. No one ends with the Jews The Iranian regime has declared and this is unparalleled on earth That it aims to extinguish another country from the face of the earth There is no parallel. There is no hatred like Jew hatred there never has been because only Jew hatred is extermination extermination estate reott There are bigots all over the English don't like the Irish the Irish don't like the English the French don't like the Germans the Germans Don't like the French the Russians don't like the poles the poles don't like the Russians Everybody hates their neighbor that is a rule on the face of the earth They like the country two countries over that's that's the way it works, but there's no X term no But but there is no extermination. Its desire There is no we will get rid of Poland it will it will be extinguished we will conquer Poland we will rule Poland but only Iran and the anti Israel forces wish to extinguish Israel so that there could be a 23rd Arab state there aren't enough Arab states But one Jewish state the size of New Jersey is too much That's it in a nutshell There is something morally sick about anti-israel people morally sick So that's the clarity on the middle-east dispute one other one other word about it Is a Jew tell fellow Jews all the time It is none of my damn business who? Israelis choose as their leaders if a Jew wishes to intervene in Israeli politics make aliyah That's it. It's very simple You can fly to Israel even from here Non-stop, and you are a citizen the next day then you can say whatever you like but to live in the safety of America where no one is trying to slaughter you as they Are in Gaza and in Lebanon and and in among Palestinians and tell Israel what to do Let me tell you something. I Supported Israel when it had left-wing prime ministers as strongly as when it has right-wing Prime Minister's Because all I care about is Israel's security That I have my opinions about who Israelis should elect is just one man's opinion I do not have the arrogance to tell Israelis whom they should choose as their prime minister The American Jewish community's arrogance To tell Israel you are wrong in whom you choose Democratically as your leaders, this is an arrogance that can only be explained in the great Jewish word It is it is it is colossal hutzpah, it is exponential cut spot Move make alia tell is real why they're wrong in the meantime It is the only state on earth that is threatened with extinction. They could use your support Okay, I Was told that one of the comments that I have made Is that has controversial on this campus? Which if it's true? Doesn't reflect well on the campus it certainly reflects Well on me, I said to the motto believe women I don't believe women and I don't believe men I believe evidence. I don't understand why that's controversial The idea that gender determines truth is perverse. It's just another perversity women don't lie That's it that's as absurd as men don't lie There are honest women and honest men and lying women and lying men It's so obvious that this is controversial Is just depressing. I don't know what to say I mean, I understand some things that I will say will be controversial. But why is that one? How could how could believe evidence possibly be anti male or anti female? Truth is our friend Because for every female isn't there for every female who makes a charge? Isn't isn't there aren't there men in her life and men in the life of the person being charged against? Doesn't every man against whom a charge is made usually have a wife Always has a mother or have a sister or have a daughter What do they think? What did the Cavanaugh family think? One of the most honorable men in America widely understood as honorable charges were made There is no basis upon which to believe that they're true. Maybe she believes it it I don't I'm not accusing her of Consciously lying. I'm not a psychoanalyst and I'm not a lie-detector But if there is no evidence That's pretty important but equally important it happened 40 years earlier in high school and Here is what I wrote this week with regard to the governor of Virginia Whom I disliked intensely. I think he's a fool But I don't believe he should resign He did something in medical school, which is reprehensible Though in its times was probably just regarded as some sort of edgy joke I don't think the man was ever a Ku Klux Klan supporter, frankly But you know here is another left-right difference the left doesn't believe in repentance The right does and I'm purposely choosing a left-wing Democrat which unfortunately has become redundant because when I started out as in your age of you who are students the Democratic Party was liberal not left and I have a whole video at Prager you on the differences between liberal and left They have nothing in common, except big government. That is the only thing that liberals and leftists agree on Liberals believed in racial integration leftists believed in black dorms black graduations That is the opposite of liberalism. I will come through race in a moment, but please understand as Alan Dershowitz Hillary Clinton supporter liberal Jew Harvard Law Professor He said and you will see it in the film Adam Carolla and I are making which will be out later this year You will see him say to me in his apartment in Manhattan as a liberal as an American as a Jew as a Democrat I fear the left much more than I fear the right If liberals Understood their enemy is the left not conservative The country would be in fine shape It is that liberal still believe conservatives are their enemy Liberals, we are your friend We may differ on this or that or this but you believe in free speech We believe in free speech the left does not believe in free speech The left never believed in free speech because the left never believed in Liberty leftism is a cancer Liberalism is a blessing Okay, and so is conservatism They differ but they're both blessings. The guardians of liberalism. Today are people like me Conservatives raised in liberal homes. Hey, I'm a Jew from New York on my birth certificate It said liberal And that is considered to be binary That's fixed that according to the left you cannot change So I said this I made this comment and Back to the repentance issue This is something new in American life and I'll tell you why it's new. This is very important that you understand This it is new that we go back to your college and high school years and hold you Who have lived a perfectly wonderful life since then an honorable life since then guilty You can't be the governor of Virginia because of the blackface photo or the Ku Klux Klan Almost cartoonish photo in your medical school yearbook 30 years ago and you have not even strace ISM since you are now disqualified The left is not only foolish it is a mean There is a meanness to not recognizing that people change and that people become good. I Held this whether they're Republican or Democrat the same with Roy Moore 40 years of monogamous honorable life and And he was held guilty for an and what he did. I'm not excusing what he did that or if he did I don't know if he did it where we're at in his late 20s. He was with Teenage girls under under 18. That's that's the that's the allegation. There's no excuse for that But he's led 40 good years of a monogamous family life. Why doesn't that count? that's the question and I'll tell you why because of the radical secularization of our society Judaism and Christianity Have as its center Centerpiece the idea of penitence that people can morally change and we should welcome their change The holiest day of Judaism is the Day of Atonement at any time in life You can you can turn your life around and we now accept you Christianity has the central prayer the Lord's Prayer that forgive us as we forgive others their trespasses There is no forgiveness on the left, they're mean they think they're good they fool themselves leftism makes you mean They talk about love, but they hate If you can't accept that people can change and thirty years or forty years does not demonstrate a moral change There is something wrong with you This is central to our thinking That's why I am against the Virginia governor resigning it's a disgrace that he's being called I wish Republicans didn't join the bandwagon Republicans should have said excuse me. We can't stand this guy. He doesn't know the difference between infanticide and murder nevertheless He is not a racist and maybe he was in medical school But that's 30 years ago and people can morally change That's what the Republicans should have said But as I've said so often there were two parties the destructive and the stupid and I'm a member of the stupid I'm proud of it. It does a lot of good but they but they don't know how to fight. They don't know how to fight You don't join this sick bandwagon that thirty years ago There was a picture of you and that means you can't be the governor because you're a racist the cheapening of the word racism on the part of the left has only served to cheapen the fight against genuine racism if Everyone is a racist as the morons of the left tell us in schools like this Every white is a racist whether or not he or she knows it or if everyone's a racist no one's a racist if Everyone is a fascist. No one's a fascist They have cheapened the fight against evil among the many terrible things. The left has done They have cheapened the fight against evil Nazism is really evil. The president knows Nazism is evil He never in his life said a Nazi could be a good person in Charlottesville. All he said was there are good people and bad people on both sides and any intellectually honest person knows he Was not referring to Nazis and antiva If no other reason we know he doesn't think you could be an Tifa and be a good person he was talking about The people against statues and the people for keeping the statues and he was right There are good people on both sides of that argument. It is a very difficult question Do you keep up statues of people who did wrong? I think you do Peter Stuyvesant was an anti-semite The first governor of New York and as a Jew who has fought anti-semitism his whole life I would oppose the removal of the statue to Peter Stuyvesant in Manhattan you Don't rewrite history by taking down statues. That's all it weighs The president is a Nazi It's it's so if they're resistance for the Democratic Party to take on the label of the anti-nazi French heroes who were tortured to death when caught It's cheap grace folks, it's hey, let me think. I'm a hero when I'm a gutless wonder They had guts the resistance because if they were caught in in in Germany or France They were tortured to death In America, if you're part of the democratic or left-wing resistance, you get an op-ed in the New York Times You're not tortured It's a fraud to call it resistance. It is the first time in American modern history Certainly since World War two which use that term that anybody has declared Its opposition to a president the resistance But they've cheapened all terms whether it's rape or Nazi fascist It's just been cheapened and now resistance Next The Left believes in big government the right believes in small government This is a big deal Because the bigger the government the smaller the Smit is the citizen the bigger the government the more the corruption Because power corrupts. That's why why do you want to give people so much power? Do you understand? If you really care about goodness, you want smaller government? You know what the American ideal is. I Take care of me. I take care of my family and I take care of my community The left-wing ideal is the government takes care of me. The government takes care of my family the government takes care of my community Why is that a more noble ideal? Which will produce kinder human beings that's why conservatives per capita per income gives so much more charity than liberals Because the moral left you get like in Europe Europeans give almost no charity because they were raised with big government Why should I help my neighbor? The government will You think that's Noble you on the left you think that's a noble idea I don't have to do a damn thing for my neighbor because the government will That's what we are breathing in the United States. Why bother? Why bother marrying the government will take care of me if I have children, why bother marrying? I don't need a man by the way, the New York Times had column after tell them about how unnecessary fathers are Yes, oh you don't know if you don't read The Times you are spared I do because it's my living The niall ISM that permeates that newspaper is just beyond belief What is stated on a regular basis? The government little government is a big deal because more freedom They understood why they can do it and that brings me to the next difference are People basically good the left thinks people are basically good the right lives on earth I Was with a group of of liberal Clerical students at a seminary I won't say any more about that today Before I came here and I asked them how how many of you believe people are basically good every single hand of these future clerics was raised which is amazing because Judaism and Christianity are utterly united on the belief that people are not basically good and how and by the way As a Jew I asked my fellow Jews Who are really and on the people are basically good bandwagon because most Jews a liberal or left You of all people? Jews after Auschwitz believe people are basically good. How do you are you out of your minds? And The answer is no we're leftists Because that's what the left teaches you Being they have to teach you people or basically or basically good because then they can blame racism and poverty on crime You get it. There's a very important belief on the left that people are basically good Why would a good person rape why would a good person murder? Why would a good person? Hold up a bank Because clearly if you're good, you wouldn't do those things. So they blame outside forces that's why this issue of are we basically good as so significant because the upshot of the belief is so Significant if you believe people are basically good you blame society for people's evil If you believe people are not basically good you blame them for their evil There's a very big difference It's it's it's not them it's poverty it's not them it's racism. It's not them it's guns Then amazing thing to blame guns no, no think about it. You know how bizarre that is blame guns Guns in good people's hands don't do bad guns in bad people's hands do bad. Why? Is that what? Five-year-olds understand that and I not a five-year-old fan. I don't think we have a lot to learn from five-year-olds but but It's just so Elementary these things are elementary Often I am told, you know, I listen to your show and you know I got to tell you it's it's just common sense. You speak I said that's right common sense and conservatism are synonymous That's what you have to understand you have to Violate the laws of common sense to take on a leftist idea. People are basically good. This is amazing They believe people are basically good but every white person in America is a racist That's pretty amazing all these good people became racists over isn't that over the period of time it's just astonishing Because it's not coherently thought through no left-wing position is coherently thought through left-wing positions are felt That's why feelings are such a big deal. So here's a big one to The left is big on feelings the right doesn't give a damn how you feel We give a damn how you act I've written a couple of books on Judaism Writing my my commentary on the Bible the rationale Bible one of my favorite lines from Judaism Which I learned in yeshiva when I was about seven is low hamachi Avocado ala Hamas a I don't know why I said it in Hebrew It's really not most of you were not Hebrew scholars I I just did because that's the way it comes to my brain. It is not the thought that counts. It's the deed a Guy called my show in my early days of radio If I could just get a little bottle of water that that was floating around that would be great so I Calls me up and he said Dennis because if I don't know if you know my show many of you do many of you don't But I talk about everything. There's a happiness hour. There's a male/female hour. So a guy called me many years ago He said Dennis you got to help me out here. I am a terrible son And I said really tell me why are you a terrible son? Said well, let me tell you I've been taking care of my elderly mother For ten years. I am her sole financial support her sole emotional support this 24-hour seven care and I got to tell you Dennis there are times When to be honest, I wish my mother would succumb to help her illness and die And I then said well, in fact, let me tell you something. Thank you. I actually think you are a great son and He actually thought I was mocking him. I'll never forget that he thought Dennis please don't make fun of me I said make fun of you. I'm dead serious. You are a great son Because of how you treat your mother, I don't judge you by your thoughts. I judge you by your deeds This this is everything everything that is why the the the left wing question is Does it feel good the conservative question is does it do good? They are often not related Raising the minimum wage to $15 in Seattle felt good, but it didn't do good it bucks a lot of young people out of work and they need work to start climbing the ladder of responsibility in life it put a lot of It put a lot of restaurants out of business, but it feels good It caused a lot of fast-food chains to simply automate you now order from an iPad Why will they have why well, that's a lot cheaper than 15 bucks an hour an iPad Does it do good is not a left-wing question. Does it make me feel good about me That's central These are huge differences between left and right the left-wing belief in equality Versus the right-wing belief or conservative belief in Liberty. It's the French Revolution versus the American Revolution We had life liberty and the pursuit of happiness They had liberty equality and fraternity Equality was not an American ideal that all people are created equal is in the Declaration of Independence That is an American belief. We are all God's children That is correct but the the value of equality of result or material equality that clashes with Liberty a Free country allows a short stop to make a hundred times more than a teacher That's the way it works Because in a free country, that's what people pay more to see a great shortstop. Is it fair is it right? God can answer that question But as soon as you say as they say for example in Scandinavia half of the or now, California Half of half of the boards of directors must of publicly held companies must be female That is not that's equality, but it's not Liberty. I am not free to choose whom I want on my own board So this is just an example we and the same obviously free speech I must admit I knew the left was bad very early in my life But I never believed that the freedom of speech in America would ever be threatened This campus and every other campus in this country has little belief in free speech because your generation 50% of your generation says oh I believe in free speech but not for hate speech not realizing because they have been taught by people who have made sure that they don't think clearly they don't realize They don't realize that that's the whole point of free speech It's no point for free speech to allow for love speech Obviously free speech allows for what you consider hate speech in The 1970s there was a Nazi march in Skokie, Illinois, you know why they chose Skokie those despicable people because a lot of Holocaust survivors live there So they wanted to rub it in again watching people in swastikas March down their streets Those are sadists sadists But Jewish organizations and the ACLU and others said hey It's a country that allows free speech For Nazis to march in a holocaust Jewish neighborhood But today the ACLU has abandoned its belief in free speech. It is now a left-wing organization. Not a civil libertarian organization So now it's against hate speech That's why prettier you videos 80 of the 400. We have put out are on the restricted list on YouTube That's where that's where theoretically Pornography and violence are put so that kids can't watch it and schools can't watch it and libraries can't watch it That's what the restricted list on YouTube is 80 of our videos Real pornography ones like Gershowitz talking about Israel's founding and the legality of it Yeah, Victor Davis Hanson on the Korean War. You have no idea the nudity in that particular one It's like I can't believe the guy did it It's making you laugh but it's really something to cry about I Have I I must admit I never predicted a war against free speech in the United States You're allowed to deny the Holocaust in the United States, you're not allowed to deny the Holocaust in Europe There's a lot more free speech in the United States, but we're becoming because the left loves Europe more like Europe Hey, they ban hate speech will do it too and Watts hate speech whatever we don't agree with That's all it means. That is all it means When I spoke at the University of Wyoming last year they had the usual six herb sexist intolerant Xenophobic homophobic Islamophobic racist bigoted when they described me none of which are true They are the opposite of Who I am but it doesn't matter because I'm conservative. I must be all these horrible things But of course they even included anti-semite Yeah, it's up there I Always get a kick out of that when the left calls me an anti-semite and then you see some comment to go yeah, but he's Jewish and then It's but because they just use these phrases and They shut down and it's really Spotify just removed the prettier you ads from Spotify We can't advertise they didn't even give us a reason This is this is not the America I grew up in I will tell you this is this is really new stuff Liberty is a big value. We have the Liberty Bell. Not the Equality Bell And you know and do you know where they They got the this value from the Bible You know, what's on the Liberty Bell. There are two things inscribed on the Liberty Bell the manufacturer and a verse from the Torah Because the founders of this country were christians deeply rooted in the Hebrew Bible in the Old Testament this is the most this is has been the most Judea philic country in the in the history of the non-jewish world and You shall proclaim Liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants from the Book of Leviticus and let me tell you anybody who knows Leviticus knows his Bible That is not so I never when I'm on a plane, I never see anybody opening up to Leviticus. It's amazing But that's where it's from Proclaim Liberty and They understood something the bigger the government the less the Liberty That's why you need a big God Secular conservatives are terrific but they don't understand the importance of the American Trinity which is on every coin in God, we trust' applaud bassoon demand Liberty. You won't have Liberty if God disappears Because people have to feel that they are accountable to something higher than themselves in order to do good and it's going to either be a government or a god in the book of Exodus When the midwives refused Hitler's orders to kill all the the Hebrew babies and drown them in the Nile It gives the reason they did because they feared God if You fear God you don't fear Pharaoh in the United States today as it becomes more and more secular This I believe I've written an article on it. You could see it tonight on the internet There is greater fear of the left in America than fear of anything else People are just afraid They're afraid to even a canal that they're a conservative let alone support the President of the United States It is an astonishing thing. The the reign of fear that the left has created in businesses. I conducted it I conduct as an avocation. I'm into music. I conducted at the Disney Concert Hall a year and a half ago a Hyden symphony and I there was a big controversy about it because seven of the musicians would not play for a conservative By the way ever no idea how many musicians volunteered to play in this in the in the orchestra and it was the it was the orchestra of one of the most left-wing cities in America the Santa Monica Symphony Orchestra nevertheless out of the 70 63 played but the New York Times wrote a poll piece on it about the big controversy over a conservative Conducting and all they did is focus on the seven not on the 63 that played so it got national attention because once the times does it everybody else covers it and Anyway, what was fascinating was the letters I got from members of the greatest orchestras in the country Email that I received Saying I'll never forget one from a member of III know orchestras. I'm one of the greatest orchestras in the country She's in the string section and she wrote to me. I'm in this Orchestra for 30 years. No one knows. I'm a conservative Is there any liberal in America who has to hide from conservatives that they're a liberal I don't think there's one Because we don't hurt you We think you're wrong You think we're evil? It's a big difference you Have to think we're evil because you don't argue with us So we must be dismissed as evil there. Why do they call us racist bigoted homophobic xenophobic and so on because they don't have arguments We don't call them names Let's argue. Let's debate. I debated a leftist at a San Francisco synagogue last year on the subject of Israel and a he And I'm very sweet in debates. I never I never mocked or condemn, I just argue and In my opinion. I thought I prevailed in that debate. I May be wrong, but here's the proof that I won YouTube even put the debate on its restricted list Half the time a leftist was talking and it's still on the oddly of the restricted list Less people watch a leftist lose to a conservative That's it's it's a mockery what they do and This is everyday next difference The founders believed in a republic the Left believes in a democracy It's a big difference that Is the reason that we have two senators from every state? States with 30 million people have two senators and states with two million people have two senators Because it's the United States of America not just America. They did not trust The great majority they want they didn't because they knew people are not basically good So they didn't trust just let's go in the majority Nope That's why there's an electoral college And that's why the Left hates the electoral college and they're trying to get around it now not using the constant a constitutional amendment process Colorado just today passed the law that all the electoral votes of Colorado will go to whoever wins the national vote So in other words if Colorado goes for candidate a and the country goes for candidate be tough Coloradans We don't care It's not it's a republic or as franklin said it's a republic if you can keep it He knew what this is in an experiment America is an experiment Every generation has to reaffirm the experiment or it disappears That's my worry The left believes America is racist bigoted imperialistic Conservatives believe America is the least racist country in the history of any multi-ethnic multiracial country They believe this is an essentially rotten Society this proof This is essential to the left The Left believes that it is a bad Society President Obama did Racism is in our DNA he said and And and President Trump is accused of dividing the country Racism is in our DNA Said the black president of the United States Does there some disconnect here a racist country elected a black president and Didn't give a damn The only thing I cared about him was the color blue Because that's democrat. Not the color black. I This notion that conservatives are racist is one of the great Gargantuan big lies of history. I have asked conservatives when the thousand conservatives would be in an audience I asked them which they would prefer. Okay. It's a good example So I said don't cheer yet or don't vote yet. I would tell them what would you prefer? nine white male Christian liberals or nine black female lesbian conservatives Now why are you laughing Because it's obvious who weekly don't give a damn. None of the rest matters. Only your values matter. The rest is nothing We care about your values we don't care about your race This is a new thing in America race is important race is in Significant Nazis thought race was important and the left thing slit race is important and Jews support the left Which is mind-blowing Did they learn nothing from the 30s and the 40's to support people who think race is significant? Race is in significant. It is as important as your shoe color It is a mind-boggling thing that you are taught at this campus that race is significant hence this great belief in diversity That's right. The Left believes in racial not not ideological diversity No, racial diversity and now gender diversity Because after all there were 56 genders according to the Facebook application page Not three not four 56 We believe in excellence That is why Shakespeare's mural was up at the Department of English at the University of Pennsylvania Not because he was white or male But because he's the greatest writer of English in English language history. That's why That's the only reason but they took it down because he's white European and male they took it down at the English department of an Ivy League university and they put up a What was it they a black lesbian poet? Because that's what was significant that she was black and lesbian Not that she's excellent Excellence doesn't matter to the left excellence is a is a code for racism When President Trump said in Warsaw, we have to protect Western civilization It has created some the greatest things like the greatest music. The the left said that was a whistle They are always hearing dog whistles It is a which suggests something but I don't want to say what it suggests if we don't hear the dog whistles and they do okay, I'll leave it at that, but the It is a dog whistle to say that we want to protect Western civilization when Franklin Roosevelt Who was a liberal not a leftist a liberal? Said all through World War two we have to protect Western civilization and by the way against other whites Isn't that interesting? We were fighting white? Of course, we were fighting whites because only values matter only values matter He said that we have to protect Franklin Roosevelt said over and over we must protect Christian civilization. Can you imagine if Donald Trump said that today? Can you imagine this Jew who wrote a book on anti-semitism we taught Jewish history at Brooklyn College knows about Christian anti-semitism Historically agrees we should protect Christian civilization. Yes Because as I tell Jews and have my whole life do not saddle American Christians with the sins of Europe's Christians America's Christians are one of the greatest inventions in human history They're not perfect, but they're damn good and they made a damn good place The proof that they consider America essentially worthless was President Obama again the man who had a way with words no doubt about it, but Five days before he was elected in 2008. He said to a cheering throng of fools. I Have no other word. I it's depressing when I if the cheering is more depressing than what he said But what he said is plenty depressing. We are five days away from fundamentally transforming the United States of America Let me explain something the left wants to fundamentally transform the United States of America and Barack Obama was a leftist not just a liberal That's the given that's that's a code for being a leftist if you think America needs to be fundamentally transformed You can't have it both ways you can't say I love America and I want it fundamentally Transformed you don't want to fundamentally transform that which you love if any spouse ever said, you know, I Love my wife, but I would like to fundamentally transform her We would have a right to be skeptical if you really love her items, I'm sure a fundamental transformation is a good idea Likewise a wife about a husband hell I love him but I like him fundamentally transform It doesn't work. They don't know what they say because they say what feels right at any given moment Oh, we love America don't charge us on the left without loving America Well, then why do you want to fundamentally transform it make up your mind. You can't have both it is not possible to have both And frankly, I don't if you don't love America don't love America. I'm not going to force you to love America But don't say you do when you have such a contemptuous view of this society That's all it's you. Can't have it both ways You know what animates people on the left because this has taken me a lifetime to figure this out What animates what animates women? To think they're repressed American women go on these women's marches because they're oppressed Do they know what oppression means? Do they have a clue? I? Can't it's it's beyond belief Millions of American women and they're almost all middle class and upper middle class women think they're oppressed by whom in What way? oppressed Iii-it's So this is what I I this is my belief I've because this is it's a puzzle. It really is I'm not joking. It is a puzzle. How do Seemingly intelligent people think such nonsense dangerous nonsense and In the final analysis, I have come to this equation Secularism plus affluence plus boredom equals leftism There are three terrible components See if you're not secular you have meaning in your life Christianity and Judaism fill religious Christians and religious Jews with meaning The left is overwhelmingly Not only not religious but anti religious so leftism fills the void that the absence of religion has left it Is a secular religion it is the most dynamic religion in the world of the last 100 years You can have a secular religion just as you can have a god based religion. That's one number two, they're bored Betty free Dan if you read The Feminine Mystique Betty Friedan was bored out of her life being a housewife poor things she was stuck in the suburbs and you know with a in a middle-class home in America poor thing with cars and dogs and kids and a husband and and refrigeration and and an electric dishwashers and all of that and But life was oppressive. I Don't quite understand why that's oppression 99% of the women of the world would not regard that as oppressive. Oh you mean? Somebody is working to take care of the family. You are free to do pretty much what you want with your day You have you have no financial needs? You poor thing This is an amazing thing that American women think they're oppressed it's an amazing thing that blacks think they're oppressed You're a lucky dude to be a black in America. You're just real lucky. You're lucky You know what? The great privilege is not not white privilege American privilege, that's the biggest privilege of all that's why people want to come into the country. They want American privilege to This notion of all, these oppressed groups the Democrats need people to believe they're oppressed or they have no votes Here's a rule. My friends. Happy blacks vote Republican Happy women vote Republican. Happy Jews vote Republican happy Happy Salamanders vote Republican Unhappiness is The secret to Democratic success if we can convince you life is miserable For you in America, we get your vote What will you blacks do without us Democrats? What will you women do without us Democrats while will you Latinos do without us Democrats, right? So they have to don't you understand AP it is an amazing thing Why do what is the group of women that vote? In fact Republican married women with children? That is the one group of women single women are the greatest are as reliable A vote for the almost as reliable as the black vote for the Democrats and guess what as a general rule a Single woman at 30 and a married woman at 30 the married woman is happier. That's a rule of life There are exceptions to every rule I'm not talking about a woman widowed after 40 years of marriage was happy to be alone or or Divorced after 40 years of marriage. No, no and even if she loved her husband, but she's okay alone. I get it I understand that I live on the in the real world But the happiest women are married with children and they vote Republican That's the way it works So they have a vested interest in telling you you are unhappy never in history Do I know where it is the vested interest of a party to gain power through the teller telling people that they have it bad? Unhappy people join us you have nothing to lose but your happiness It's a rewriting of Marx's statement to the proletariat Isn't it amazing You know, I do a happiness hour every week. I have since nineteen ninety nine. I wrote a book on happiness. I Have pretty good. Well thought through ideas on happiness and While my only agenda of that hour and my book is to make people happier or enable them to be happier. I Realized after a number of years while it's not my agenda. It is a it is a factor. I'm making more Republicans. I Never thought of it that way but as people get happier, they switch parties, they no longer see themselves as ruined by American life it's a very very important aspect of current American life and I'm coming near the end the list. There's a the list is endless, but I'm going to just give you two more Open borders versus closed borders They deny they're for open borders, but of course they're for open borders Op-ed piece after op-ed piece in The New York Times is about listen. Let's let people who want to come in come in These people just want to better their lives a moral Society. Let's in these people and Read what's on the Statue of Liberty? Liberty, give us your tired and your poor. That's the way we should be. That's why they're against the wall That's the reason they really do want a lot of people to come into the country and by the way, that one of there are two reasons one is the more who come in the more votes the Democrats get That's just the fact now why is that very simple because there's no other country in the world with the value of limited government so people come in overwhelmingly naturally Democrats The people who flee Honduras have not been thinking about Madisonian limited government much of their life. This is not anti Honduran the average graduate of this college doesn't think about limited government and has nothing to do with where you're from but in in South America South America, it's almost always almost always Big government person against big government person a guy who watches Praeger you videos from Venezuela called my show 27 year old guy said Dennis. I don't know if you realize this the opposition to Maduro here is Is another socialist And I said what I'm what I guess I didn't realize that I said and of course it makes sense Because you know what the average person in Venezuela thinks the problem is not socialism. It's amiduos Corruption, that's what the left always says Communism is beautiful in theory Stalin screwed it up. That's what they believe It's always the individual. It's never the system To prefer socialism to capitalism Capitalism is the only thing only thing in history to have lifted billions of people out of poverty people who love people People who love people as opposed to ideas The left love idea is much more than they love people If you love people you love capitalism there is cannot be an exception to that rule If you want to lift people from poverty only Capitalism makes money only capitalism creates wealth socialism spends the wealth that capitalism made that's true in Sweden Denmark and Finland just as is true in Venezuela or the United States that is a truism that you won't hear I suspect in almost any class at the University of California at Irvine, which is Mind-boggling that you would not hear such a basic elemental truth about life only capitalism creates wealth When I was a kid Superman was very very popular both in comics and on TV I watched Superman and I adored him and his motto was What was it? Just what a Truth justice and the American Way, that's it. That was his motto truth justice in the American sound nice. Doesn't it? Can you imagine how that must sound to someone on the left and the American Way? And the American Way, what do you tell the American Way is racist and imperialist genocidal and enslaving the American Way So sure, that's he embodied that So a few years ago the Superman comics they were they were written by liberals Now they're written by leftists. He stood in front of the United Nations and renounced his American citizenship He is now a citizen of the world That's what they trust citizens of the world That's one of the reasons of the whole nationalism debate Yes nationalism can be used for evil and can be used for good just like knives knives can save your life as When used as a scalpel in surgery and can kill you when used by a murderer Stabbing you. There's no such thing as a good knife or good nationalism there or excuse me There's no good life and bad knife. There's the wielder But nationalism can be good. It is good Do you know why the Tutsis wiped out the who the hoodoos wiped out the Tutsis in? Burundi in inver 20 years ago in the greatest massacres in intensity since the Holocaust Because they didn't have a national identity. They had a tribal identity America is a great experiment of whatever your background you identify as an American That's the great American experiment why it's a plural bounnam from many one Liberty in god we trust' a pluralist unum, this is the great American experiment Yes, I believe in Having nation the left believes in having a United Nations. I Don't want to be governed by the International Court. I don't want to be governed by the World Health Organization I want the World Health Organization to do good, but I don't want it to govern the health of my country. I Don't trust the world Again, I say to my fellow Jews. Are you out of your minds? You are big fans of world opinion What the hell did world opinion do for us? America helped us not world opinion And Finally the most remarkable new difference We conservatives have this bizarre notion that there are only two sexes We For truly reactionary reasons What can't can you explain it? Any other way we believe that if you possess a vagina and a uterus and breasts and menstruate and produce eggs You're a female This is not a mockery of the transgender. Let me explain something very quickly. There is a tiny tiny Infinitesimally small segment of humanity that is completely not at peace with their sex My heart breaks for these people It is simply a tragedy and if they go around looking like the other sex take the other sexes name I will refer to you out of out of simple human courtesy any way you want but That is not what the left is saying be courteous to people with gender dysphoria they're saying there's no such thing as sex or gender and They call us anti science This is mind-blowing, so let me tell you my final understanding of the left eye I am writing this commentary on the Bible because if we don't return to that the greatest Repository of wisdom. I think we're through and it's You know what God does in the first periods of creation creates order out of chaos the left hates order It loves chaos and This is the ultimate expression of chaos in Genesis. It said God created Adam the human being Male and female he created them it is the only distinction built in that matters to God There are values distinctions that matter to God good and evil and so on. Holy and profane a whole host but the only built in human distinction that is stated is male and female That's why there's a law that the man cannot wear women's clothing and a woman cannot wear that which pertains to a man it wants to keep that distinction Essential to the human condition Kids are being raised in the United States today in New York City as of January 1st you Are free to list no sex on the birth certificate of your newborn male female and X the poor child whose parents put X To raise a child with no sexual identity. I Pity those kids they are the left are child abusers There is no other term there are now more and more teenage girls Having their perfectly healthy breasts removed surgically because they think that they're a boy The monsters who take those off are worse than the people who perform female genital mutilation Those people at least are prisoners of a culture that taught them that way These doctors are getting paid to lop off Girls breasts at the age of 17 because the girl is announced without her parents even affirming. I'm a boy This is sick stuff my friends but the human being does not like the divine order Chaos is natural order is not order is divine. Chaos is natural. The left is a force for chaos That's what that's why this battle is so important because if we lose America its lost where else is the battle taking place Europe is surrendered Where is the battle going to take place? that's why it's worth fighting and That's why I I do what I do To fight, thank you It's a worthy fight my friends I Will end with this I was deeply affected by my visit to Normandy the thousands of crosses Commemorating the American dead all of them 20 21 22 years old mowed down by Nazi machine guns And I remember what I said to myself These guys died for America No one's asking me to die for America, but I think I could live for it That's what I'm asking you to do. Thanks very much Thank you all Thank you everybody, thank you Thank you, thank you Thank you very much thank you. Thank you Thank you, thank you, thank you all Okeydoke I think I thought they almost as long as the president's State of the Union address All right. So if you disagree, I'm more than happy to have you up first. Don't feel self-conscious We we will treat you much more respectfully than the other way around so Okay, let's begin all I ask by the way It doesn't even have to be a question but it does have to be brief for the sake of others tabatha, and that's all Okay, we'll start here. Okay, by the way somebody if there's too much there somebody should move over there because I'll alternate microphones. Okay? Yeah Okay It's a very tough thing because the To get an article published in The Washington Post or New York Times or LA Times from a conservative point of view is almost non-existent They correctly fear anyone being exposed to our ideas correctly from their perspective They are right they will be defeated whenever we are allowed to express ourselves freely We have zero problem publishing them reading them you of all everybody here You are completely familiar with the Left views. They are completely unfamiliar with ours That's part of the reason we always win debates not just because we're better debaters. Sometimes we are sometimes we're not We win because they don't know any of our arguments and we know all of theirs That's why They don't they they live in a hermetically sealed universe and so you it's a very tough what you what you will end up doing probably Is being published on the Internet? And you can get a reputation that way you were not going to make any money that way but you might start getting lectures So a lot of times that's what leads to possible income But it you are entering, you know, if you have liberal views or left-wing views You would have a much greater chance of making a living as a political journalist. It's just it's just true That doesn't mean you shouldn't do it You should still do it. And you know, if you speak well, you know the speaking this television is radio So good luck Yes, please Yeah, I'm sorry, you're a wot member, okay You would if you didn't have religion that is why the country was founded on the belief that we'd have a secular government And a religious population. That's the American Dream not a religious government but a religious population and Virtually every founder said that including Benjamin Franklin who? Was was not an active Christian I'm not sure. He didn't believe in the Trinity but he believed in God and he believed in afterlife that God judges and that without Washington and other said without a religious education we don't have a chance to survive. That is the way that would be their solution Yeah That's correct ultimately it does and the tragedy is that a lot of secular conservatives don't know that Yes, I've had the Bates with Jonah Goldberg on that. Yes, please Nothing No, no, I I just no no, it's very important. I'm sorry. I Liberals and conservatives have a great deal in common conservatives know what liberals don't Liberals still think their enemy is conservatism and not leftism. As I said earlier. That's the best Hope we have is to teach liberals. Your enemy is leftism not conservatism, but That you are you have no idea. I grew up this way. I Started reading and collecting books in my sophomore year in high school and I remember what I Counted the first time I counted how many books I had in a role paperback as I couldn't afford a hardcover book I had 32 books and I remember one of them prominently called danger on the right there was no book written by liberals danger on the left and It was inculcated in me. It took me a while to realize wait a minute The danger is not on the right in the United States. It's just not the danger is on the left and certainly today So anyway, our hope is to convince liberals That you keep keep a lot of your values and so on. That's fine But reaffirm them reaffirm racial integration reaffirm that race is insignificant reaffirm that free speech is is a Rock-solid foundation of liberalism. That's our only hope Okay Thank you. Yes Speech absolutism, but what you said that the left? rejects free speech and the right embraces it I started having different thoughts from the mind all the time to the right has traumatic free speech So for example Trump tweeted that people who burned the flag Should go to jail for a year and be stripped of their citizenship Roy Moore once said that the First Amendment applies to Christians And choosing conservatives that have supported the FCC of regulating content in the airwaves based on decency Justice Thomas was the only Supreme Court justice to dissent in the Virginia versus white women said that Burning in the cross can be banned Very rarely, let me go through the list that you just recited first in no order of the way you put it necessarily Just what I remember. So you you think that I who has a public airwaves radio show on 200 stations in this country I should be allowed to use the f-word regularly, you believe that you're an absolutist a kid should be you what you do? Okay, okay No, no, it's irrelevant what the fine is do you believe it should be legal so Any kid can turn on the radio and hear a stream of invective and and perhaps at a an orgy with the orgasmic sounds Okay, fine, I'm sorry I can't control that I can control what is on the okay you You're a net you are an absolutist. And I think it's a foolish view because it's extreme It's just extreme. The Society is allowed to protect itself. This is not political. Remember, this is not political speech Okay saying the f-word is not political speech When Eric Garcetti got up and said this is a great effing day and uses the use the f-word in front of tens of thousands of kids that It made a deep impact on me that the mayor of Los Angeles would say in Staples Center after the Kings won the Stanley Cup You know, I know a politician shouldn't do this, but I'm gonna drink and curse at the same time And this is that this is the mayor of Los Angeles That's why I rooted for the Patriots I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding. I Actually, I'm serious. I root for LA teams. I'm a big kings fan, but the and I'm okay with Anaheim, but the but I Just want to make clear I didn't want the mayor to get up and said when the Rams won the Super Bowl is a big effing day for Los Angeles But for you, that's a non-issue For me it's an issue. So so okay. All right, we differ. Okay. So let's just again clarity You may be right. I may be right. What was the next one? If Roy Moore said that freedom of speech is only for Christians Okay, fine if he actually it is inconceivable to me. He believed that when he was running for office It is such a stupid belief and there was no founder who would have said it It's just it's so I everyone has allowed for stupid comments in a lifetime. Okay, so that's I forgive him What was the what was the other one Oh burning the flag Burning the flag good people could differ on it said that's not speech that's symbolic It could be speech maybe it isn't speech In the final analysis, I come down on the absolute aside you can be allowed to do so But I I am torn on the issue if society says one Specific thing is not allowed to be done I don't think that that is a statement that you can't speak out on any issue. Okay, so That's that would be my answer But but if I had to vote on it You want to burn the flag burn the flag and hopefully the opprobrium of the society will will stop you from doing it again Okay, thanks. Yes What what a content creators, okay, that was fast, yes like me and Crowder and Shapiro with those the examples you gave yes, I Don't know I if I didn't believe that mines could be changed I would consider all of my endeavors useless so Since I don't wake up thinking I think it's a huge battle. I I know you should see it's phenomenal to see the mail that you know, we had over a billion views We have we have almost two billion views in total at Prager University How many of you have seen a Prager University thing? Okay That's great it's great to hear and anyway so We believe we can change minds That's why they don't want us That's why they put 80 videos on the restricted list because we do change minds That's why I read all auto read all because they're there tens of thousands of comments but so often You know Oh Prager University is a lying right-wing propaganda machine is a common attack of a leftist person on a comment page Do you know that in all of the times that I have read it? No one has ever given an example of when we've lied Not one they just asserted it's just like asserting so-and-so is a racist the left believes Asserting it makes it so It's it's it's but I do believe I I that I do believe Not not everybody can have their mind change clearly, but I am convinced. I know it It's not it's not a belief that you can change minds but there's another reason we do and I do I do my work and we do our work and That is people say well, you know, you're preaching to the choir I've always had an answer to that the choir forgot its melody. We better preach to the choir conservatives forgot what conservatism stands for Not all conservatives can give the speech. I just gave I don't blame you This is my life's work, but I want you to be able to give this speech Because there were so many conservatives Who in their heart know this is a good country Then they send their kid to college and the kid comes back thinking. It's it's an asshole country Okay. Thank you very much. Yes You do know me I Do too No, no, no people are basically good or not good I never said they're evil It's it's the person so I think what it is It's I think that these are necessarily because aggression can be used for good or evil You know So what I would like to clear is what uses it to say that people are basically Well, well I am nuance why I never said people are basically evil if people basically evil we get no good out of the human being So but we're not basically good and why is that important? Well, I'll give you one of many reasons I gave some in the speech I'll give you one different one If you believe it's a you have children, if you believe people are basically good and are born good Then you won't drive yourself crazy teaching your children how to be good and you? If you don't drive yourself crazy teaching your children how to be good. They probably won't be good. I I wish the average parent If My I have so many examples But by I guess one of my favorite ones is how many times does the average parents say to their child say, thank you Now if we were basically good once would suffice The kid would understand somebody did me a favor and the kindness. Of course. I'll say thank you gratitude is a beautiful trait but you have to say it approximately 10,000 times and then hope it works because Gratitude is the mother of goodness and happiness So you want to make a grateful child, but you have to teach them to be grateful, but we have we have worked on Self-esteem that is unearned and we are reaping a terrible price for it so I want people my kids I was hardly an ideal parent, but I will say this and my kids would Totally vouch for it. It was clear to them from the get-go I didn't give a damn what college they went to I didn't even give a damn if they went to college I only cared about their character. That's all I cared about Not their great, by the way One of my kids is annoyed with this day that I never asked him about his homework And I thought you should thank God who that hell wants the parent to nude you about your homework. But anyway By the way, that is part of my theory. Your kids are gonna hate you no matter what you do So you might as well do what is right? Yep Right and they get a rush of adrenaline when they do something bad adrenaline Trump's endorphins, yes You know who will save if Europe is saved Western Europe will be saved ironically by Eastern Europe They they appreciate Liberty more because they lived under communism so they haven't had the time to become cynical about freedom and Affluence and liberty as the West Europeans have they still believe that? National identity is significant - which of course the New York Times responds that? They are fascist a an East European nationalist is by definition of fascist. That's the way they look at it So I just spoke in Romania last year because of Prager University interestingly young people invited me to speak I spoke to 1500 young people in two Romanian cities and I told them they said you know, well, what about Western Europe Western Europe Western Europe place? I said why don't you put this in your minds? Maybe you will save Western Europe Maybe Romania will save France. Maybe Poland will save Germany and This was a very powerful thought to them that they had never entertained. They have an inferiority complex visa vie the West That's my hope Okay. Thank you by the way I'm a big believer that the speaker should leave before the audience does so we'll take five more minutes. Does that sound okay? All right, five more minutes. So forgive me back there. I feel this is like the worst part It's like ah, I see the names on my on the board on my show and I don't get to all of them. Okay? Hi Wait a minute say that again, I want to hear it. I just want to hear it again. You are a conservative from France How many friends do you have any friends Without competing accusing Lashon Hara Oh how not a question I expected So here I'll translate this in a nutshell. Can you speak I have a great answer for you because it's a very important question Judaism has a very very strong emphasis on not humiliating other people publicly So there's a concept called Lashon Hara which means bad speech So you speaking bad about others behind their back or or even in front of them is a big taboo a religious taboo So, how can I do my work as it were and not violate that rule so I will tell you what I do I'll give you an example During the a Clinton Monica Lewinsky year. I announced on my radio show That I will not accept any jokes about Monica Lewinsky The woman is created in God's image. If you want to tell a joke about Monica Lewinsky. Do not call. My radio show that Was a it was and I was the only talk-show host. I knew of who for bad Monica Lewinsky jokes because Exactly because of that law to this day. I frequently attack columns without saying who wrote them Because I'm not interested in attacking the writer. I'm an interested in attacking the ideas. So it plays a very operative role in my life Thank you Yup, go ahead. Yep So I disagree with racism discrimination is the big Never discriminate Between racism there are Well, I don't know if it's cause of everything but on what you said about gender I agree there is a fundamental difference By the way, I knew things were bad and I wrote it This is not telling you today The argument for same-sex marriage was gender doesn't matter only love does as soon as I heard gender doesn't matter I realized we were on a slippery slope and we are now on the bottom of the slope gender. Not only doesn't matter It doesn't exist. So It was it was it was not a good argument If there are other arguments, I understand equality and a whole host of things a complex question But gender doesn't matter was not was not I did not find to be an operative argument race does not matter That that I do vote. So it's ironic. They say gender doesn't matter and race does because Basically, they're always wrong. It is an amazing thing to be almost always wrong, but they are Okay, let me take this one here. I feel bad. I really do but what can I do? I? really feel I do feel bad I a because I I would as far as I'm concerned I could come and just take Q&A but Because I've heard me a lot Yes Yes, I do And I'll tell you why because if I'd have been alive during World War one, excuse me world war two. I Would have supported shipping weapons to Stalin Stalin was the greatest mass murderer in history except for Mao Hitler was third Because I don't think like a libertarian I think like a moral person. I think should think I think in moral terms What increase is good? Defeating Hitler was the greatest good at that time. Therefore supporting a man who makes the Saudis look like Boy Scouts to the external there are no longer Boy Scout Scouts the Supporting so I would have as Churchill who hated the Bolsheviks hated them said if I would say I would Something the effect. I would support the devil to fight Hitler. I Don't understand not thinking the way I just said The this notion they're really not good guys, so I won't fight the really worst guys The biggest obstacle to Iran's influence in the Middle East is Israel and Saudi Arabia Iran is a bigger enemy than Saudi Arabia So I will support Saudi Arabia and that's the way the Republicans think the left apparently doesn't think that way Oh, they're really killing a lot of people in Yemen. So let's boycott or Khashoggi got killed because show yes. It's disgusting What they did to Khashoggi totally disgusting but the number of journalists killed by air Dewan and Turkey Dwarfs The number of journal is killed by the prints in in Saudi Arabia. Nobody is advocating that we have no relations with Turkey But so that's yes. That's how I think I think in what what? That to me what in it the lesser here the lesser of two evils promotes good That's that's the the miserable truth of life That was by the way, I'll end with this that is why I was against Donald Trump and I was wrong by the way I admit it. I wrote it Calem on it. I Reaiiy was for every other republican other than Donald Trump during the primaries But I wrote in my first piece for National Review if he's nominated I will support him because any Republican today is better than any Democrat That's just the way it is I Wish it weren't true. I wish it weren't true. That's why I never understand Americans who say oh I vote for the candidate What does that mean the nicer person? The one who committed less adultery. No. No, what does it even mean? I don't understand the argument. I Based on what values does that person represent whether they're flawed or not? God worked with King David who makes a Trump look like a Boy Scout Yes, not only did he commit adultery and impregnate a woman with whom he committed adultery he had the husband killed so he could get away with having adultery with that woman and God decided he could work with him. So Somehow or other if God could work with David I could work with Trump, thank you all everybody Thank you everybody, thank you
What's up guys, this is Willie with Prager U and in honor of Holocaust Remembrance Day, We're asking people what they know about Auschwitz and what they know about the Holocaust. Take a look. What is the Holocaust? The what? The Holocaust. I don't know. What is the Holocaust? The who? The Holocaust. This some California stuff? What group of people did the Nazis target? Why is it about Nazis? Um... Kids? What is Auschwitz? Auschwitz? The country? I don't know. Is it the little red mints in a - (laughing) - in a container? Something to do with the war. Back in the days in the hologram thing. What is Auschwitz? Things in the - in space? Close. No, no. I'll tell you at the end. Do you know many Jews were killed during the Holocaust? Um, eight thousand? Six million. Really? I did not know that. That's scary. What is the Holocaust? Um, the Holocaust is the execution or the removal of all Jews from Germany. Yeah. They wanted to eradicate the Jews? Yeah. Alabama schools aren't as bad as they say! Are you a supporter of Israel? Yeah, I guess, yeah. Yeah, I'm a believer, so... Do you support Israel? Um, yeah. Israel's cool. They got a nice little Judaic star. Do you think it's important that you should know about history and these things? I should, but at this point, Trump is in office - no matter what you know. We all goin' down. Thank you so much for watching guys. The fact that even one person doesn't know what the Holocaust is is appalling to me. We need to educate our future generations. So, thank you for watching this. Please follow me and Prager U on social media, share this video with your friends and let us know you think. Thank you.
I was elected to the Parliament of Canada seven times - three times as Prime Minister. I did not expect Donald Trump to be elected President of the United States. But unlike most observers, I did think it was at least possible. Why? Because I sensed, as Mr. Trump surely did, that the political landscape had shifted. The underlying issue is this: Over the last few decades, thanks to globalization, a billion people - mostly in the emerging markets of Asia - have lifted themselves out of poverty. This, of course, is a good thing. Yet, in many Western countries, the incomes of working people have stagnated or even declined over the same period. In short, many Americans voted for Donald Trump because the global economy has not been working for them. We can pretend that this is a false perception. We can keep trying to convince people that they misunderstand their own lives. Or we can try to understand what they are saying and offer some solutions. I prefer the latter approach. Let me begin with this: In our contemporary world, there are, as British journalist David Goodhart describes it, those who can live Anywhere, and those who live Somewhere. Imagine you work for an international bank, computer company, or consulting firm. You can wake up in New York, London, or Singapore and feel at home. Your work is not threatened by import competition or technological dislocation. You vocally support all international trade agreements and high levels of immigration. You are one of those who can live Anywhere. There are a lot of those people. But there are a lot more completely unlike them. Let's say you're a factory worker, a small-businessperson, or in retail sales. Your work has been disrupted by outsourcing, cheap imports and technological change. Your children attend the local schools and your aging parents live nearby. Your social life is connected to a local church, sports team, or community group. If things go badly at your company, or if policy choices by politicians turn out to be wrong, you can't just shift your life to somewhere else. Like it or not, you depend on the economic policies of your national or state government. When it doesn't come through for you, you're not happy. And when it ignores you entirely, you get angry. It's easy for Anywheres to dismiss these concerns. But the Anywheres' faith in global solutions and multi-national political bodies is founded more on fantasy than fact. The fact is, the critical functions of laws and regulations and monetary and fiscal stability, among other things, are provided by nations, not global institutions. The nation, with all its flaws, is a concrete reality. The global community is little more than a concept. Yet it is the Anywheres, with their faith in globalization - not the Somewheres - who have dominated the politics of almost every advanced country. That is, until now. This sea-change is not limited to the United States. The same dynamics - Anywhere elites versus Somewhere populists - is playing out all across the Western world. These populists, as I've tried to show, are not the ignorant and misguided deplorables depicted in mainstream media. They are our family, friends, and neighbors. The populists represent, by definition, the interests of ordinary people. And, in a democratic system, the people are supposed to be our customers. So, how then can we best serve them? I propose an approach I call populist conservatism. Grounding ourselves in tried and true conservative values, we must speak to the issues that concern the Somewheres and their families - those of ordinary people, not elites. Those issues include market economics, trade, globalization, and immigration. In addressing these issues, conservatives should remain pro-free market, pro-trade, pro-globalization and pro-immigration. Going in a completely opposite direction in any of these areas is a mistake. But being pro-market does not mean that all regulations should be dismantled or that governments should never intervene to protect workers. Being pro-trade does not imply that every trade agreement is a good one. Being pro-globalization should not entail abdicating loyalty or responsibility to our country and our local communities. And being pro-immigration should never mean sanctioning illegal immigration, erasing our borders, or ignoring the interests of our citizens. I call this populist conservatism, but it's really just conservatism. Conservatism is about seeing the world as it is. It's also inherently populist because it is about serving real people rather than theories. I'm Stephen Harper, author of Right Here, Right Now: Politics and Leadership in the Age of Disruption, for Prager University.
Ol So in case you didn't notice I'm not black I'm also not Mexican But I think it's very very important for me to be here And first of all, I want to give a huge shout out to everyone here and to Candice for putting this on This is amazing. Thank you You know, I was at the Women's March yesterday actually which was About, I think twenty five thousand people in downtown LA and I can tell you I didn't get the same amount of love From them that I'm getting from you guys now, so that's a very nice thing It's so funny to see what those people at The Women's March are actually fighting for, you know, I go and I talk to these women Again, like Candace said these white Liberals, and I say, "what are you fighting for today? Why are you here?" And they say, "oh, you know, I want to abort my child at nine months, illegal immigrants, and I'm fighting for the people who couldn't make it to this March today," and I said "people couldn't make it to this March today what people are those?" and they're like "oh all the minorities who who couldn't make it here because they're oppressed in America because Trump is oppressing them," and I said 'Maybe they just don't want to come to your stupid march." But, as you can see from this video we just played, it seems like the left thinks that they control how minorities think and feel That they get to tell them when they're supposed to be offended Those Mexicans in the video on Olvera Street to the left. Those are token Mexicans. I bet they just have internalized racism. Stupidest thing I've ever heard. We live in a culture and a society Where being offended has become a recreational pastime This is what a Navajo Indian told me when I went to the Navajo Reservation in Window Rock, Arizona. I made a video where I went to California State University, Northridge *someone in audience cheers* Don't say that. That's not the right. That's not the right thing. where I went to that campus and I dressed up as a Native American a guy who you will hear from later, Black Mike, he Dressed up as a black pilgrim and we went there for Thanksgiving giving out pumpkin pie, and we thought it was going to be great, you know and It turns out it wasn't, and a teacher at the University Brought her entire class out to kick us off campus and yell at us. They were yelling death threats, They ripped off a mic, they ripped off my costume, and they made us leave the campus. And I thought it was very very strange. So I decided to put it to the test, And so I went to the Navajo Indian Reservation 900 miles outside of LA to see what they thought about it, and the results are exactly as you'd expect. Not one of them was offended by cultural appropriation. Not one of them thought the Washington Redskins name was offensive, and not one of them wanted other people to get offended on their behalf. It was funny how much they actually loved it that we were celebrating their culture. It's cultural appreciation, not cultural appropriation. It seems that nowadays people are going to college and they're coming out stupider than when they went in. I only did two years at university until I dropped out, I couldn't take it anymore ,and I had to go and work for Turning-Point first then Praeger U to help change America. And these people, these young people who I talk to, they're not born offended. You can't be born offended, It has to be something that is taught. Leftist professors teach their students how horrible America is, How terrible white people are, and above all else, my culture is not your damn prom dress. That's what they teach them. Which is made even funnier that 80% of college professors are actually white. Virtue signaling Academics are teaching impressionable college students what to think, Not how to think, in turn creating an entire generation of students who believe getting triggered is the norm and who shame those who wish To celebrate another culture's identity. So what does all this mean all of this getting offended white liberals getting offended? It really means the white liberals are the most racist people in America. *Crowd cheers* Love that They think their virtue signaling antics are helping minorities But in reality, it undermines them. You can hear them now "black people are being oppressed in America, It's up to us as white liberals to defend them. Let's go tell white people they can't have braids. That'll tell everyone We're not racist, right?" No, it's actually quite the opposite from that. When you do this you make it seem like minorities can't think for themselves. Black people aren't asking you to get offended for them. You're doing it for yourself So that other people around you will think that you're "woke" But let me tell you something white liberals There is nothing woke About caring about black people's feelings When you then turn around and advocate for the same programs and policies that have kept african-americans down in America for decades. You think about something like affirmative action, you know affirmative action sounds great on paper but Affirmative action is racist all the way through it basically says is the premise African-americans Hispanics are not as smart as white people So we need to give them a leg up so they can get into these positions but the reason Why African Americans and Hispanics aren't in these positions is because of the economic Oppression that the Democrats have put on them for the last 60 years You fix the welfare state, and you fix the schools in these communities you won't need affirmative action As funny as study actually just came out that shows when Democrats had talked to minorities They dumbed down their speech when they give speeches they dumbed down their speech They used simpler words so that they can understand them because minorities can't understand them is that not racist? This is what we call pandering think of someone like Hillary Clinton Hillary Clinton, what do you all our favorite politician? our favorite policies Hillary Clinton, what's one thing you always keep in your purse Oh hot sauce Hot sauce. I always keep hot sauce in my but you don't That's pandering People like Hillary Clinton who have time and time again put their own wealth and fortune above minority issues while in office Don't suddenly get a free pass because they say I keep hot sauce in my purse. It's disrespectful to black people and honestly, it's insulting They did the same study with conservatives and guess how conservatives talk to minorities just like they talked to everybody else so for me becoming a Conservative. I haven't been a conservative forever. No way I used to work for a Democrat senator back when I was in high school mostly to impress this girl who I knew but I was also on the left and I was in I was an English major worthless degree, and I was in my intro to sociology class Intro to sociology class and I remember my TA in my class. She came up to me pointed at me There was a black girl sitting next to me and she said you are Oppressing this girl next to you just because of the color your skin your white privilege and the girl the black girl She looks at me. She's like, I don't know what's going on. This is really awkward for me And I was like, yeah I don't really think I'm offending Oppressing you and that was like a moment where I realized like maybe these things that the left are saying are wrong This girl doesn't think I'm oppressing her. I don't think I'm oppressing her But this white TA had a $50,000 a year University as the right to come and tell me that I'm oppressing them This is how you create a victim culture in America The main message that I want to get across to you guys today Is that these white liberals and politicians who claim to have your best interests at heart? Don't care about you They are doing it for their own selfish gain The champion minority struggles as their own to make themselves feel better in virtue signals But in reality they know nothing about what is going on your communities They've used minorities for votes for far too long and it's time to end it But you know who does they're conservatives and Donald Trump Someone who had spent more for the black and Hispanic community another any politician in the last 30 years But the mainstream media doesn't know that CNN doesn't say that Conservatives care because when you succeed everybody succeeds Conservatives are the party of America the party of patriotism And we realize that the only way for our country to be the best is for everyone living in it to be the best I'm going to end with this Now you guys have been here today and you've heard from some amazing speakers Candace and everyone else and you've learned so much But why are you here? If it's not to take those ideas into the communities that you live in and spread them around as much as you can We as conservatives the people who believe in the values of America and freedom can no longer sit down and not say anything This is why California is the way that it is because conservatives have capitulated to what the left is wanted for too long We have to stand up and fight and yes, you're gonna lose some friends probably for the values that you are saying But that's part of the bargain for trying to protect this country and keep us safe And that's what we have to do What defines every American is not the color of their skin? But the ideas that they hold and the left has manipulated those ideas Into a never-ending struggle that aims to destroy America and keep America and keep minorities down forever It's up to us to end this thank you You Thank you 
He's a millionaire. Even today that phrase has a magical ring to it. And what image do you see? Probably a guy in a $1000 suit pulling up in his luxury car to his ten-bedroom mansion. He doesn't have a care in the world. Why should he? He's got all the money in the world. Who knows how he got it. Maybe his parents left it to him or he got lucky in the stock market or acquired it in some dishonest way. What does it matter? It's out of your reach, right? I don't blame you if you think this way. I thought that way once myself. It's how Hollywood and the popular media like to portray the wealthy the one-percent. But it couldn't be further from the truth. How can I say that? Because my research team and I surveyed and interviewed over 10,000 millionaires. We learned a lot about them. What we found out surprised me, and, I suspect, will surprise you, too. But before I explode some millionaire myths, let me first define what I mean by a millionaire. It means someone who has $1 million dollars in net assets; that is, the total of their assets, bank accounts and investments minus any debts totals $1 million or more. According to a recent report, there are almost 11 million millionaires in the United States today more than ever. But here's the kicker: that same report shows the number of people living paycheck to paycheck is on the rise, with one in three unable to cover a $2000 emergency with cash. The key difference between the so-called haves and have nots? Well that's what really blew us away. But before I give you that answer, I need to deal with some myths about the millionaires we talked to. Myth #1 Wealthy people inherited all their money. The truth is, 79% of millionaires received zero inheritance. That's right, zip from mom and dad. They earned it on their own. Myth #2 Wealthy people are lucky. This is one that I believed for a long time. But in reality, 76% of millionaires say that nothing extraordinary happened to enhance their wealth. No lottery wins. No stock market killing. Discipline and hard work were the key factors. As for luck, the luckiest thing in most of their lives was being born in, or becoming a citizen of, the United States. Myth #3 Wealthy people have prestigious private-school educations. Wrong again. 62% of millionaires went to public state schools. You don't have to go to an Ivy League School to do well. Myth #4 Wealthy People Have High Paying Jobs. Not true at all! One-third of millionaires never had a six-figure household income in a single working year. Really. I'm not making it up. So, what makes these millionaires so extraordinary? You ready for the shocking answer? Here it is: Nothing. Nothing at all. Remember I said that there was one key thing that separated the haves from the have-nots? It's the attitude millionaires have toward money. They have learned to control it and not let it control them. So, if you want to achieve financial security, you need to change your mindset. The sooner the better. You have to start with the belief that it's possible for you to become a millionaire. I can give you 10,000 examples of people like you who have done it. Next you have to take responsibility for where you are financially right now. And wherever you are, however you got there, you've got to own it. My friend Dave Ramsey says, If you're the problem, it also means you're the solution. That's actually good news. It means your financial destiny is in your own hands. Once you've accepted where you are, you have to create a plan and set goals. You need to pay off debt and build up savings. Methodically. 92% of millionaires set long-term goals for their money. There are no shortcuts. Reaching millionaire status won't just happen accidentally. It takes what I call intense intentionality. And, of course, hard work. But I believe just about anyone who's willing to work hard and be disciplined about spending and saving can become a millionaire in America today. If you had talked to all the ordinary Americans, like I have, who have made it, you'd believe it too. The opportunity is there. Take it. This is America where there's always room for one more millionaire. I'm Chris Hogan, author of Everyday Millionaires, for Prager University.
It's been 50 years since Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was shot to death on a motel balcony in Memphis, Tennessee, and over the decades he has become one of the most revered figures in American history. There is an impressive memorial to him in Washington, DC, and a museum celebrating his life in Atlanta, Georgia. Countless schools and boulevards have been named after him, and a national holiday is dedicated to his memory. How is it, then, that so much of his legacy what he hoped to pass on to the future has been lost? King wanted equality under the law and said, famously, that people ought to judge one another based on character, not skin color. But he also believed that blacks had an important role to play in their own advancement. The black civil rights battles in America are now over, and King's side won .The best indication of that may be that King has had no real successor. If black Americans were still faced with legitimate threats to civil rights such as legal discrimination or voter disenfranchisement it's likely that leaders of King's caliber would have emerged to carry on the fight. Instead, what we have today are pretenders who have turned the civil rights movement into an industry, if not a racket. And what have these racketeers accomplished? A lot for themselves and very little for their constituents. Racial gaps in income, education and home ownership were narrowing in the 1940s, '50s and '60s, but after King was replaced as the spokesman for black America by the likes of Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and others, these gaps began to widen in the 1970s, '80s and '90s. This suggests that the racial disparities that continue today aren't driven by whatever racism that still exists, despite all the claims to the contrary from progressives and their allies in the media. It also suggests that black culture - attitudes toward marriage, education, work and the rule of law - plays a much larger role than the left wants to acknowledge. More marches won't address fatherless homes. More sit-ins won't lower black crime rates or narrow the school achievement gap. Electing more black politicians and appointing more black government officials can't compensate for these cultural deficiencies, either. Black mayors, congressmen, senators, police chiefs and school superintendents have become commonplace since the 1970s. Even the election of a black president twice failed to close the racial divide in many key measures. Black-white differences in poverty, homeownership and incomes all grew wider under President Obama. Discussion of antisocial behavior in poor black communities, let alone the possibility that it plays a significant role in racial inequality, has become another casualty of the post-'60s era. King and other black leaders at the time spoke openly about the need for more-responsible behavior. After remarking on disproportionately high inner-city crime rates, King told a black congregation in St. Louis that we've got to do something about our moral standards. We know that there are many things wrong in the white world, he said, but there are many things wrong in the black world, too. We can't keep on blaming the white man. There are things we must do for ourselves. The pretenders to King's legacy mostly ignore this advice, preferring instead to keep the onus on whites. Where King tried to instill the importance of personal responsibility and self-determination, his counterparts today spend more time making excuses for counterproductive behavior and dismissing any criticism of it as racist. Activists who long ago abandoned King's colorblind standard, which was the basis for the landmark civil-rights laws enacted in the 1960s, tell young black Americans today that they are victims, first and foremost. White society is against you, they say, even if you have no clear examples of discrimination to point to. They are told that fire hoses and poll taxes have been replaced by unconscious racism, white privilege and microaggressions. A generation of blacks who have more opportunity than any previous generation are being taught that America offers them little more than bigoted teachers, biased employers and trigger-happy cops. It's not only a lie, but as King understood, it's also self-destructive. Black activists and white progressives stress racism because it serves their own interests, not because it actually improves the station of blacks. But this neglect of the role that blacks must themselves play in righting their own lives can only make matters worse. A half-century after King's death, plenty of people are paying him lip service. Far too few are following his example. I'm Jason Riley, of the Manhattan Institute, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is will wear with Praeger you today? We're at the Navajo Nation and we're talking to people today about political correctness issues facing their community in their culture Let's do it. Do you find the name Washington Redskins? Is that offensive to you? Um, I don't think so I in my personal opinion know I am a Washington Redskins fan You know, I don't think it's terrible, you know Because the Redskins actually came down last year to with our Native American people and talking how to do football the little kids You know, I don't find it offensive Someone came to me and called me a Redskin to my face Hey, it's my fault for letting that hurt me. I Believe as Navajos and as Native Americans we have larger issues to deal with the name-calling Like that. I like to Cleveland Indians. I thought that was pretty cool But some people would say that was like a drunken native on on a logo You know II mean but the Redskins I don't I mean that's a historic. That's a fighter You know, I mean and like you look at the Apache helicopters, you look at the Navajo code talkers You see people jumping on airplanes saying Geronimo So that's just admiration that the the American cultures that's adapting and bringing into their their environment. We can't dwell on the past Progress is in the future. And so we have to look forward as Native people I didn't know if you heard about Elizabeth Warren talking about 1/1000 24th the Native American putting that out there. What does that mean to you? And she says I think that's just a way of kind of having an advantage Being in a political position. Yeah. Let me ask a question back if I were, you know, maybe in a different country Let's say Ireland and maybe I had 1% and I was trying to claim the 1% you know Any mean kind of like that, you know what I mean? What would you say are the biggest issues are now facing than I have a whole community Definitely language and culture preservation and realizing that it is something we need to preserve and it's something very special and unique something that a lot of people don't get to enjoy it's it's a cool thing being Navajo and being Native American in this day and age if someone were to dress up as a Native American for Halloween What do you think about that someone outside of the community? There's a fine line there for me, there are Totems there are pieces of attire and regalia that are Authentic and only meant to be worn during certain times or certain acts of of ceremony but you know if you go to Walgreens or Walmart on the Halloween store or you know a Costume specialty store, you buy something that's obviously fake I don't really have a problem with that, you know the symbolism of the headdress and stuff like that and I can see how Native Americans traditionally Who may not see that as great but as a young person like myself I think that's that's that's a cool thing that we get to be represented. Well when you start mutilating Eagles or Sacred animals to make up your regalia just for a Halloween costume. Then you're crossing the line disrespecting the culture exactly exactly but as far as cultural appropriation Mankind wouldn't be where we are today If it wasn't for cultural appropriation at some point in our history somebody took the idea of making fire from another culture and the Navajos were able to adapt and Basically learn from the people that they were and able to integrate that into their own culture. So we were basically survivors I really we take a lot of pride in that and then the Navajo code talkers that were in the South Pacific Theater they used their Native American language and They were instrumental in every marine action and all the different scattered Network Islands overseas and I mean, it could have been any other, you know people in the world, but By the blessing of the Creator we were we were, you know, given and granted that that opportunity to protect our homeland which is America, you know, but I think it has become very Unfortunate that. We live in a culture in a society where outrage has become a recreational pastime Where people knit and pick until they find something wrong and then they become outraged by it and That for me, I believe that hurts cross-cultural relationships I believe it hinders us helping to understand each other now here at the Museum I give a lot of cultural lectures and a lot of cultural tours that's part of my job here and I always start off every tour and every questionnaires a session with I'm very difficult to offend and I believe that the most offensive questions are the questions that need to be asked and answered Because that's the only way we learn with each other whether it's between religion beliefs cultures gender, it doesn't matter the most offensive things are sometimes the most important conversations to have all right guys So we just finished up here at the cache miss festival here at the Navajo Nation And we found that most Native Americans are not so worried about being offended and more worried about bettering themselves and they love this country They love the military and they love the USA. So thank you guys so much for watching if you enjoyed this follow me and Praeger you on social media drop your comments below and make sure you share this video with your Friends i'm will whit for Prager you thank you You
The promoters of identity politics - the idea that we are primarily defined by our race and gender - have taken over the humanities and social sciences. That's bad. But not as bad as this: They are moving in on STEM science, technology, engineering and math. All across the country, a UCLA scientist reports, the big question is: how can we promote more women and minorities by changing' (i.e., lowering) the requirements we had previously set for graduate level study? The National Science Foundation (NSF), a federal agency that funds university research, exemplifies this approach. Progress in science, the NSF argues, requires a diverse STEM workforce. Why this is the case they don't bother to say. Somehow, NSF-backed scientists managed to rack up more than 200 Nobel Prizes before the agency realized that scientific progress depends on diversity. No matter: in July 2017, it awarded $1 million to the University of New Hampshire and two other institutions to develop a bias-awareness intervention tool. Another $2 million went to the Department of Aerospace Engineering at Texas A&M to remediate microaggressions and implicit biases. The science diversity charade, as I discuss in my book The Diversity Delusion, wastes extraordinary amounts of time and money that could be going into basic research and its real-world application. If that were its only consequence, the cost would be high enough. But identity politics is altering the standards for scientific competence and the way future scientists are trained. Diversity is now an explicit job qualification in the STEM fields. The physics department at UC San Diego advertised an assistant-professor position with a specific emphasis on contributions to diversity, such as a candidate's awareness of inequities faced by underrepresented groups. Solving the mystery of dark energy apparently now takes a back-seat to social justice. Maybe it was a coincidence, but all five candidates on UC San Diego's short list were females. If traditional standards are keeping women and minorities out of STEM fields, it stands to reason that changing standards must be the way to get them in. Or maybe standards are just another expression of the white patriarchy and thus no longer relevant. An introductory chemistry course at UC Berkeley reflects the new culturally sensitive pedagogy. A primary goal, according to its teachers, is to disrupt the racialized and gendered construct of scientific brilliance, which defines good science as getting all the right answers. This same diversity obsession extends to medical schools - not a happy thought when they wheel you into the operating room for emergency surgery. The promoters of identity politics are literally playing with our lives. Medical schools admissions committees are now told to overlook the low test scores of black and Hispanic applicants in favor of a more holistic approach. From 2013 to 2016, medical schools admitted 57 percent of black applicants with a low medical college admission test score of 24 to 26, but only 8 percent of whites and 6 percent of Asians with those same low scores, according to Claremont McKenna professor Frederick Lynch. Racial preferences in med school programs are sometimes justified on the basis that minorities want doctors who look like them. Really? Seems much more likely that minority patients with serious illnesses want the same thing we all do: a well-trained, skilled doctor. The desperate attempt to get women into STEM fields is also based on the idea that, absent discrimination, women and men would be equally represented in the sciences. This is highly unlikely, however. Differences in math proficiency between boys and girls show up as early as kindergarten. In the top .01 percent of math ability, where we find scientific genius, there are 2.5 males in the US for every female, according to a recent paper in the journal Intelligence. This may help explain why women make up 14 percent of engineering workers and 25 percent of computer workers. To acknowledge this was once common sense; now it can get you fired. Ask James Damore, the Google engineer who questioned the company's hiring preferences for females. The National Labor Relations Board upheld Google's firing of Damore on the grounds that his statements about purported biological differences between men and women were discriminatory and constituted sexual harassment. This decision means that every evolutionary biologist, neurologist, or economist who acknowledges the differences between males and females is at risk of his job. The unique accomplishments of Western science were achieved without regard to the sex or skin color of its creators. Now, however, funders, industry leaders, and academic administrators want us to believe that diversity is the key to the future. But the truth is the exact opposite: we want our best scientific minds to be free to do their best work. In our highly competitive world, identity politics is an indulgence we can't afford. I'm Heather Mac Donald, fellow at the Manhattan Institute, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is Will Witt with PragerU Today we're on Miami Beach, And we're asking people if they can name all seven continents. Let's do it. Can you name all seven continents? Asia... America Can you name all of the continents? Of uhhh... Of The United States? Of the world Close enough d***... f*** no No North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, land down under Australia. And don't forget Antarctica. What is the biggest continent? Asia. Yep. A s i a YES I think Africa, cause like... Black people are better than us Like everyone, I feel like they win with a lot of things so imma go with Africa It's Asia. It's Asia? Oh... Yeah. *indistinguishable* - You should have, what are you doing? And which one's the smallest? Australia -God I don't know -Europe? Europa. Lock in that answer? Sure, Europe It's Australia - Is it?... No way... Vegemite - Oi, yeah... Yeah - I don't believe you - Yeah, nah nah yeah. Aussie... smallest. Didgeridoo What's your favorite continent? America, yeah Do you like USA better than Argentina? Of course. -Of course? -Yeah Do you guys think it's important that you know about history and geography? Yeah. I think that it's important, but I also don't believe half the things that are told to me So like, school is kind of a drag when it came to history It doesn't matter though to me. I'm on--I'm in America like I don't feel like Not going to Australia any time soon Don't need to know that. Not right now. Maybe the earth is flat, too. Do you think it's important for people to know geography and history? Yes. Why do you say that? -Uhh, well *unintelligible* just to know different cultures. -Because he said "America" Or what you say North - you said America and we have two of them Sure, I'll give him that I'll give him that. I'll give him that one
Have you ever waited in line for hours at the state-run DMV? Or wanted to pull your hair out at the government-operated Post Office? Well if some members of Congress have it their way, government red tape and lackluster customer service would also extend to health care. Government run health care has recently been repackaged as Medicare for All and is a big move away from free market competition. As a result, the quality of service will likely drop and taxes will skyrocket. Many medical professionals have also indicated they won't participate in a government-run health care system - so you may not be able to keep your existing doctor. In practice, this could mean waiting hours for much needed medical care or up to a year for surgery - a major problem for time sensitive procedures. The price tag of Medicare for All is also jaw-dropping. Instituting the program is estimated to cost over $3 trillion per year. That's more than the U.S. government spent on the military, healthcare, social security and other entitlement benefits combined in 2015. Inevitably, that additional financial burden would fall onto the American taxpayer - slowing economic growth and stifling business expansion. Medicare for All may sound good in a campaign stump speech, but putting the idea into practice is risky and comes down to one question: How do we pay for it?
This suspect, unlike Ron Who immigrated to this country lawfully and legally To pursue his lifelong career of public safety, public service, and being a police officer This suspect Is in our country illegally He doesn't belong here. He's a criminal. We will find him, We will arrest him, And we will bring him to justice. It's sovereignty 101 This is our home, and we have not only the right, but the responsibility To determine who comes in, how many come in, And what qualities and qualifications they bring. The truth is we let in millions And of course, millions more want to come. Who can blame them? But it's simply not possible or desirable to let in everyone. And it's not hateful to say so It's not hateful to protect our borders. It's not hateful to protect our citizens It's not hateful to protect our values
As an historian, I'm often asked if I could stop one event in modern history from happening, what would it be? My answer is World War I. If there had been no World War I, there would have been no Russian Revolution, no World War II, no Holocaust, no Cold War. And that doesn't even consider the millions who died in the war itself. Following the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815, Europe experienced an unprecedented period of economic growth. Brought about by the Industrial Revolution, this new prosperity spawned rapid developments in science, medicine, art, and political philosophy. The future of civilization never looked brighter. And then, suddenly, it all went up in flames. The fuse was lit in June 1914, in a street in Sarajevo, Bosnia. It was there that Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the Austro-Hungarian empire, was assassinated by a Serbian nationalist. It should have been no more than a sad footnote in history. Instead, it changed history. Austria-Hungary, seeking to avenge the Archduke's murder, declared war on Serbia. But before taking this drastic step, it asked for - and received - a blessing from its powerful ally, Germany. Serbia, knowing that it had no chance against Austria-Hungary, called on its ally, Russia, to defend it. Russia agreed. To strengthen its hand, Russia solicited French support should war break out. France, ever suspicious of German intentions, assented. Germany then made a pre-emptive move to take France out of the war. The German command, having long planned this war, invaded France through neutral Belgium. This prompted Britain to join France against Germany. Suddenly, the entire continent was engulfed in war. The key player was Germany. Their strategy was to punch through Belgium and France and capture Paris before the French had time to react. This was the so-called Schlieffen Plan, named after the German general who conceived it. With France conquered, they would turn their attention to Russia. That Germany thought it would actually work comes down to one man, Germany's leader, Kaiser Wilhelm II. The Emperor of Germany from 1888 until his forced abdication in 1918, Wilhelm was a profoundly unpleasant, unstable and vicious personality. By 1914, he believed that Germany should not only dominate Europe, but the entire world. Had the Schlieffen Plan worked, Germany most certainly would have. But it didn't work. The British and the French put up stiff resistance in the west. Russia did the same in the east. The losses incurred by all sides were immediate - and appalling. The widespread use, for the first time, of barbed wire, machine guns, tanks, and, worst of all, poison gas turned the fields of France and the steppes of Russia into vast cemeteries. By 1917, the war was at a stalemate. Who knows how long it would have stayed that way if the United States had not been drawn in? Ironically, President Woodrow Wilson had been elected largely because he promised to keep America out of Europe's War. His attitude changed when Germany attacked American merchant ships in the Atlantic. The final straw was the infamous Zimmerman Telegram in which Germany promised to give Mexico, in exchange for its military support, much of the American southwest, including Texas. The infusion of American manpower and weaponry allowed the Allies to take the initiative. The war finally ended in November of 1918. Sixteen million people - soldiers and civilians - were dead. Three million Russians. 2.5 million Germans. 1.7 million French. One million British. And 117,000 Americans. Russia was now in the hands of Vladimir Lenin and the Bolsheviks. France and Britain were physically and morally shattered. Germany, forced into a humiliating surrender treaty at Versailles, would soon be further decimated by runaway inflation that destroyed what was left of its economy. Meanwhile, the United States retreated into isolationism. It was pause, not a peace. The stage was being set for a new and very much worse disaster - a second World War, one that would lead to three times the deaths of the first one. It would be instigated by a madman who fought for the Kaiser and shared the same dream of world domination. Had it not been for WWI, we would have never heard of him. I'm Andrew Roberts for Prager University.
It's a nasty truth, but those who seek to inflict harm Are not fazed by gun control laws. I happen to know this from personal experience. *applause* You know, I've always felt a special bond with the members of your group You live by Lincoln's words: "Important principles may and must be inflexible." Your philosophy put its trust in people, So you insist on individuals be held responsible for their actions The NRA believes that America's laws were made to be obeyed, And that our Constitutional liberties are just as important today as 200 years ago. And by the way, the Constitution does not say That government shall decree the right to keep and bear arms. The Constitution says the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed. The next time you hear a politician call for common-sense gun control, listen for the details. You are likely to be treated to a torrent of platitudes about assault weapons, Gun show sales, and other half measures These sorts of proposals are rooted in a theory of gun control that has been around since the 1960s The basic idea is that fewer guns equal less gun crime But for this theory to have even a chance of working, Drastic reductions in the supply of guns will be necessary Everything else amounts to security theater The late Senator Howard Metzenbaum, a strong gun control advocate, Explained it this way: If you don't ban all guns, you might as well ban none of them But few of any politicians who call for common-sense gun control have the courage to propose this. Even putting aside the issue of the Second Amendment to the Constitution, Which affirms the right to keep and bear arms. A gun ban has no broad popular support. Never mind that Conservative states handgun ban referendums Failed by large margins in two of our most liberal states: Massachusetts in 1976, and California in 1982. No serious attempts have been made since then. Recently, Australia's gun control efforts have gained new prominence As a possible model for the United States to follow. Let's take a closer look at Australia. In 1996, after a lunatic used a semi-automatic rifle to murder 34 people in Tasmania, The Australian government banned all semi-automatic rifles and repeating shotguns Owners of roughly 700,000 registered firearms, About a quarter of the country's 3 million total guns, were required to turn them in for destruction. The government called this a buyback, but in fact, no one had a choice. As my research shows, this model will not work in the United States, For the simple reason that the U.S. has roughly 325 million guns. This is orders of magnitude more than any other country Even if the Australian plan were tried in the U.S. and worked perfection, We'd still be left with over 200 million guns. Including handguns, which account for nearly 80% of gun crime. But gun confiscation has never worked to perfection, And sometimes threatens to make things worse.
What's up guys, this is Will Witt with PragerU joined by Donald Trump Jr. How you doing it's great to see you Well, we are at the student action summit for Turning Point USA, and I just got one big question: Why does the media hate the Trumps? I don't understand it. Why are they so against it? I just don't think they like anyone who's gonna question their authority I mean, I think they thought they ran the country It was inevitable that Hillary was gonna win because that was their choice, Not the rest of America's choice. And so, I think they're rebelling against that like spoiled children. Yeah, exactly. Do you think it makes them mad that we are making America, I mean, so great it's prosperous I mean the tax reform, everything. Why do you think they're against that? You know, I can't figure that one out yet, and I mean, I think you heard it in my speech, I always ask the question, you know Name one economic metric where we're not better off today than we were two short years ago Name one, frankly even from a foreign policy standpoint Where we're actually finally delivering what's right for America, And for our citizens, and the fact that they can't buy into that, you know, it doesn't make sense But the reality is they don't want someone who's gonna buck convention. They don't want someone who's gonna change the game They've all gotten very comfortable whether that's the media whether that's the politicians, Just sort of owning the system And to have an outsider come in and destroy that system from within a system That's really made them very rich, but failed so many others for so long They don't like that, and they don't like anyone questioning it. So, I think that's a lot of what my father's done, he's really broken up that system He's shown people that hey, - You don't have to be part of the political elite to people-- - You don't have to be part of the swamp - You don't have to be part of the swamp. -No, you can fight it, the swamp will bite back But if you have some guts, maybe there's a better word for it, but you can actually fight back And win. Well, thank you so much. We appreciate it. Thank you
What's up guys, this is Will Witt with PragerU Today we're on Olvera Street for a pro Caravan March here in Los Angeles We're gonna talk to the people here, see why they're marching, and see what they think about the caravan. Let's do it So I believe that people have the right to be here beyond this land just like they did 500 years ago We are not putting up with illegal aliens from Europe telling us what to do on our land What is the meaning of the sage? It's California white sage, and it's to take away all negativity and to purify the area Brothers and sisters, come together and fight the real enemy, And that's the invaders from across the ocean that do not belong here See, you guys gotta start thinking this way Mass migration calls us to mobilize for communism. So we're for a system without borders, without nations, without, without capalists, without money We learn from the Russians and the Chinese Revolution that the next, the next revolution has to be for communism Didn't like a hundred millon people die during communist revolutions? Where? In Russia, in China? No it's not true. It lies Okay :) See, you guys gotta start thinking this way I asked you if you're pro-racist, cus... capitalists are pro-racist - Oh, I don't know about that - Why are we--how is that? Ok. -What do we want? -Justice! -When do we want it? -Now! Just a question, did your guys's parents, grandparents, did they come in illegally or legally? Do you know? Uh, I'd have to ask but um, I think for the most part they, they probably... We intend here a bluer national California Republic Yeah, Trump is an a**hole! Yeah But so was Obama, so was Clinton The solution is simple Besides the destruction of the Empire, these people are, there's one of them there They are, they're the modern-day Gestapo. Yeah! If you don't know what the Gestapo is, That was the, the police of the Nazis And as a history teacher, I teach my, my students about World War II, and the Nazis, and all that See, and you guys gotta start thinking this way U.S. imperalists! Number one terrorists! Alright guys, we just finished up here at the Pro Refugee, Pro Caravan, and honestly this Pro Communism March This is the leftist future that they want. This is what we're up against guys Share this video, share PragerU videos, get them out to people, We need people to be educated, or the left is going to take over this country And this is going to be the future that we have in America. Guys, thank you so much. Follow me on social media @TheWillWitt and @PragerU, see you guys next time. See, and you guys gotta start thinking this way
We will keep this promise... to the American people If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor. Period. If you like your healthcare plan, you will be able to keep your healthcare plan. Period. We weren't as clear as we needed to be In terms of the changes that were taking place And I am sorry that they Are finding themselves in this situation based on assurances they got from me It's very easy for a politician to stand up before voters and say "Health care is a right," And then passionately advocate for single-payer, or free healthcare, Or Medicare for all--whatever term they might use But before we consider the merits of the government managing your healthcare, And that's what this all boils down to, Maybe we should ask a more basic question. What do we mean by healthcare? Because if you get sick, and here we're talking major illness, Or you're in serious pain, you don't just want healthcare. You want quality healthcare. And where's your best chance of finding that? The answer is right here in America. For skilled doctors, cutting edge medical treatments, and care without long delays, No other country rivals the United States. Not even close. Nobody from Texas is going to Canada for medical treatment, It's almost always the other way around. Sure. Our healthcare system has lots of issues, and we should address them. But do we really want to abandon all the ideas that we do have, And start from scratch? Because that's what would have to happen if we completely turn healthcare over to the government. So, let's imagine we make the change. We hear a lot about how great free healthcare would be, But it's only fair we look at the downside. The first is that government-run healthcare takes medical decisions away from patients, That means you, And puts them in the hands of bureaucrats. They decide, for example, how many MRI machines are going to be available. Or under what conditions you can get back surgery, or a bypass, Or even whether you qualify for cancer treatment. That's how it works in the United Kingdom under it's single-payer system. Because it has finite resources, the national health service, or NHS, Sharply restricts access to treatments like hip and knee replacements, Cataract surgery, and even prescription drugs to deal with common conditions Like arthritis and diabetes. If you suffer from any of these ailments, and many others in the U.K., You may just have to live with the pain. And let's hope you don't have a medical emergency. In a January 2018 article in the New York Times, Patients in emergency rooms around London are described as "Having to wait 12 hours before they are tended to... Corridors are jammed with beds carrying the frail and elderly..." To deal with the situation, "hospitals were ordered to postpone non-urgent surgeries Until the end of the month..." That hardly seems like an improvement over what we have in the U.S. A second big problem with single-payer systems is that they are expensive. Really expensive. A recent study by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University Found that a Bernie Sanders style Medicare for all health system Would cost a tidy 32.6 trillion dollars over 10 years. That's on top of what the federal government spends on healthcare today. And this is not a new number. Other studies have found the cost to be roughly in the same range. So, how would we pay for it? Kenneth Thorpe, a professor at Emory University and health policy official in the Clinton administration Spells it out. "If you are going to go in this direction, Medicare for all, the tax increases are going to be enormous." "Not just for the rich," Thorpe estimates, "but for working Americans and the poor, too." Charles Blahous, the author of the Mercatus study, puts it this way: "Even a doubling of all projected individual and corporate income taxes Would be insufficient to finance these added federal costs." And he considers that a conservative estimate. Canada knows all about exploding healthcare costs. In Ontario, the country's biggest province, those costs took up 46 percent Of it's entire budget in 2010. By 2030, that number is projected to be 80%. In other words, in a few years, Ontario will have little money to pay for anything EXCEPT healthcare. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, Government-run systems depress the search for new cures. Biomedical research spending in the U.S. far outpaces that of any country With nationalized healthcare. Even when you account for differences in population or size of economies. That's one reason medical breakthroughs rarely come from countries Where the government controls healthcare. They come from the United States, where the government doesn't. The lions share of biomedical research and development spending in the U.S. Over 70 billion dollars in 2012 comes from the private sector. Discovering new medical cures and technology is a profitable business. And thank goodness it is. Those profits drive innovation; Take away the profits, and you will surely take away the innovation. Single-payer, free healthcare, Medicare for all, They might sound great. But like all visions of Utopia, they ultimately produce a lot more harm than good. I'm Lanhee Chen, fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, for Prager University.
Five hundred years ago, on October 31, 1517, a German Catholic monk by the name of Martin Luther posted some complaints he had about the Catholic Church on a church door in Wittenberg, Germany. Luther was upset by the Church practice of selling what were known as indulgences to wealthy patrons. Indulgences might be loosely described as get out of hell free cards: pay this amount to the Church and the Church would make sure you don't suffer unduly for your sins in the hereafter. Luther felt very strongly that the practice not only made the Church look bad in the eyes of the common people, but had no scriptural basis. He believed the Church needed to reform itself or would lose its legitimacy. Nobody, including Luther, thought that his complaints - and he had made a list of 95 of them - would amount to much. He simply wanted to spark a discussion on an issue that deeply concerned him. Instead, he set off a chain reaction that literally changed the course of history. The name we give to this change is the Protestant Reformation. Had Luther limited his criticism of the Church to indulgences as his friend, the Dutch scholar Erasmus, urged him to do, the matter might have been resolved and the old order preserved. But the headstrong Luther was not someone to be restrained. Luther was what we could call today a flawed individual. He was brilliant and charismatic, but he was also vindictive and stubborn to a fault, and at the end of his life, sadly anti-Semitic. Luther believed there should be no separation between the Bible and the believer. Every individual should have access to the word of God, Luther contended, as any priest did - or even the Pope. We take this view for granted now, but in the 16th century it was a radical concept. And here's why: For more than a thousand years, the Church had been the dominant religious and political authority in Europe. It alone taught Christians how to understand the Bible. Luther was now challenging the very basis of this authority. Not surprisingly, the Church didn't take it well. What began as a squabble between a bold monk and the Catholic hierarchy soon developed into a titanic and bloody struggle that split Europe into opposing religious factions. But the consequences of Luther's ideas extended far beyond a religious dispute. It's not an exaggeration to say that as a result of Luther's ideas the modern individual was born - a free actor endowed with God-given rights that exist independent of government or any other institution. Each person could find those rights by reading and interpreting the Bible for himself. Of course, to do that, you had to be able to read the Bible. And throughout the first millennium, right up until Luther's day, only a very few people could. Books, including the Bible, were all handwritten, a process usually that took months. This made books rare - and expensive. Furthermore, most Bibles were written in Latin, the language of the Church, a language familiar only to the clergy and educated elite. This exclusivity was one of the many ways in which the Church maintained its power. Luther answered this problem by translating the Bible into everyday German so that anyone could read it. But his efforts would all have been for naught except for the recent invention of the printing press by a fellow German, Johannes Gutenberg. The printing press allowed, for the first time in history, books - and soon thereafter, pamphlets and newspapers - to be widely distributed. Without the printing press, Luther would have likely suffered the same grim fate of reformers before him like Jan Hus, who was tried, convicted of heresy and burned at the stake. But because of the printing press, Luther's movement could not be stopped. And, indeed, could not be controlled. Bloody religious wars between Catholic and Protestant forces quickly followed on the heels of Luther's new ideas. They lasted for two hundred years and cost countless lives. The Thirty Years' War alone, from 1618 to 1648, is reputed to have led to about eight million deaths from fighting, famine, and disease. But out of all this carnage, many positive changes came too. The Protestant empowerment of the individual led to capitalism and the Enlightenment, just to name two by-products of Luther's protest. The American Revolution, with its idea that individuals endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights should be free to form their own government, was another. Of the 56 signers of the Declaration of Independence, all but one was a Protestant. Pronouncing a verdict on an epoch as significant as the Reformation is very difficult. Perhaps it's best not even to try. But we can say this: no other single figure made more of an impact on the modern world than the German Monk, Martin Luther. And even he would be surprised to know that. I'm Stephen Cornils, of the Wartburg Theological Seminary, for Prager University.
Britain votes to leave the European Union. The United States elects a president who says he'll put America First. Around the world, nationalism is winning elections. Many see this nationalist revival as the great danger of our time, fearing that nationalism will take us back to a more primitive and racist past. But it wasn't long ago that great political figures such as Woodrow Wilson and Teddy Roosevelt, David Ben-Gurion and Mahatma Gandhi, Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher recognized what I call the virtue of nationalism. So, what is this virtue? A nationalist believes that the world is governed best when nations are free to chart their own independent course, cultivating their traditions and pursuing their interests without interference. Nationalism is not about racism. All nations are internally diverse. And it isn't about isolationism. Of course, nations can a pursue a variety of different policies in diplomacy and trade. Nationalism is the opposite of imperialism - or globalism or transnationalism - which are all names for the attempt to bring peace and prosperity to the world by uniting mankind under a single political authority. The debate between nationalists and globalists, then, is over whether we should aspire to a world of many independent nations - or to be one unified super-state, like the enlightened Federation of the Star Trek movies. A case can be made for both sides of the argument. But for the last 30 years - really, since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the end of the Soviet Union - the one world side has been dominant. Today, this is changing. Maybe not among elites, but among ordinary citizens - or, as they are known in America, the deplorables. It turns out that a lot of people still think good borders make good neighbors. It's hardly surprising that people want to preserve the way of life they and their ancestors built up over centuries, the way of life they believe is best. It's human nature. Our strongest loyalties are to those who are closest to us: to our family; then the larger community or tribe, and finally, to the nation. Long ago, it was discovered that the key to human freedom is to build political life out of this natural loyalty. By putting decision-making in the hands of the family, the community, and the independent nation, you could get people to cooperate with one another, join in the common defense and willingly obey laws. The only alternative to this kind of community and nation-based politics is to use force - to coerce obedience. In the 20th century, communism and Nazism both sought to impose a universal vision at gunpoint. Both the communists and the Nazis were imperialists: They wanted to eliminate the independent nations of the world. Nationalism holds that borders are crucial: The border is where each nation's ambitions should stop. This idea first appears in the Bible, where Moses gives borders to Israel and tells the Jews they'll be punished if they trouble their neighbors. True to its biblical roots, the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century made the independent nation-state the political cornerstone of the modern world. When Henry VIII declared that England would no longer obey dictates from Rome, he became Europe's first true nationalist. Soon, additional nations declared their independence: the Dutch from Spain, and America from Britain, to cite just two examples. The competition among these newly independent peoples led to an explosion of innovation, bringing unprecedented progress in science, industry and government. For nearly four hundred years, the principle of national independence served as the foundation for a better, freer world. But World War I and World War II changed everything. Traumatized by these catastrophic conflicts, many now seek comfort in a simplistic narrative, ceaselessly repeated: that nationalism caused two world wars and the Holocaust. But this is one of the great untruths of our time. Adolph Hitler was no nationalist. He was an imperialist. If his ambitions had been limited to ruling Germans, it would have been terrible for Germany, but the French, the British, the Russians, and everyone else would have been spared a world war. Sadly, European elites learned the wrong lesson, believing that independent nations are inherently dangerous. Better, they reasoned, that all countries should live under one government. In 1992, this vision gave birth to the European Union. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher hated the idea. She didn't want the bureaucrats in Brussels making decisions for Brits in Birmingham. But in the utopian 1990s, Britain thought it was better to dump Thatcher and go with Brussels. It's the spirit of Margaret Thatcher and, indeed, of Henry VIII, that reasserted itself in Britain's vote for independence from Europe in June 2016. Donald Trump tapped into the same spirit of nationalism five months later, in November 2016. Nationalism is making a comeback. If you care about freedom, you should hope it succeeds. I'm Yoram Hazony, author of The Virtue of Nationalism, for Prager University.
What's up guys, this is Will Wit with PragerU today. We're in Nashville, Tennessee on Broadway And we're asking people what they think of Obama, and if they can name one good thing that he did Just one. Just one Who do you think is a better President Trump or Obama? Obama Obama Obama Obama What's your favorite thing that Obama did? Ummm, I liked his public speaking skills Uh, the healthcare reform Okay. Obamacare? Obamacare, yeah. Obamacare. Healthcare, for everybody Like when Obama said you'd be able to keep your doctor, Or that the rates wouldn't go up, and then those things didn't happen. Does that make you think badly about the Obama care or no? No. It don't. It worked, it worked better for the middle income and lower income, yep What do you--why do you think he's better than Trump? Because he wasn't as opinionated That's definitely true. Not very politically correct, huh? No, and I mean, I do think our president should be. Why do you think Obama is better than Trump? We don't have enough time for that. Obama is a human, Trump is not My name is Obama, and socialized medicine is the best. Okay, it's really good *laughs* What is your favorite thing that Obama did? I would say, I think he gave a lot of insight into a lot of communities and demographic areas that kind of have always been, You know, proportionately marginalized... You know, uh, and, along with a lot of the protests and the stuff that we're going along... Well, if you look at like a lot of the music that came out at that time period... I didn't know who the president was. My day-to-day life probably wouldn't change all that much... When I, when it comes down to it, I don't really think the president really has much control at all I think he's the big puppet, you know, you know what I'm saying? Who is pulling Trumps strings, you think? The Federal Reserve Do you think Obama or Trump is a better president? Donald Trump. Trump, of course. Trump? Why do you say that? Because he's business minded and he's got more jobs for people. You know, I mean he's, you know, a far cry from somebody I would, You know, choose out of a million people but uh, he's a lot better than Obama. Well he's the uh he's the people's champ. He's opening up mines every day. Keep up the good work, I'm a big fan. Thank you man. I only had to pay him 20 bucks to say that, so *laughs*
I'm Danielle D'Souza Gill, and I'm here with ... ... infamous Will Witt ... What's up, guys? ... from PragerU, so, I'm gonna ask him a quick 20 questions. I think you guys know that I love talking about myself, so this is... this is perfect. First question: On a scale of 1 to 10, how excited about life are you right now? Ten. Very, very excited. (laughs) Describe yourself in a hashtag. Um... Hashtag... #Unique Very unique. Favorite song? Oooohh... America the Beautiful. Really? It's a beautiful song. You like party in the USA by Miley Cyrus? Ohhhh... that's a little 2007. (laughs) You like Landslide? By Fleetwood Mac? Yeah. Yeah. I like that one. That's like the basic song though. Well, sorry. You gotta get deeper into their discography. Guess I'm basic. What are three things you can't live without? Hot Cheetos... Hot Cheetos... ... Hot Cheetos... ... (licks lips) Instagram... I sound like the worst Millennial. and a... and a good book. Let's say that. Very very good. I got to set it off a little-- Who are three people, living or dead, that you would love to have a conversation with? JFK... JFK... dead. Um... Trump... and... William the Conqueror. Another Will. When was the last time you cried? (laughs) Oh, gosh, this is getting really personal. Personal question. I actually don't remember. I think it was... ...when I was watching a movie, a few weeks ago. Hmm. Okay. I woke up this morning and cried. (laughs) What's your favorite board game? What's your favorite board game? Chess. ...for sure. Very intellectual. ...or, um, Parcheesi. I think it's Indian... It's really fun. (laughs in disbelief) Interesting. Okay. (laughs) Do... do you know it? I've never heard of that... ...cause you're half-Indian... I've never heard of what you're saying. Oh. ...but I do like chess. Okay. ...and we call it chess... in India. ...in India. Indian Chess? No, it's just Chess. Okay, fair enough. What is your favorite thing about yourself? That... I'm a human being. ...and... I have the ability to... have moral reasoning. That's true. (laughs) (laughs) Sorry. I'm just an old person... (laughing) No, I like-- I like that. I like that. In a young person's body, so~ Scary film or happy endings? Scary film. Really? Yeah, I love scary movies. What is the best piece of advice you've ever received? Don't sacrifice your values for anything. That's from... That's not the exact quote, but, basically, from Dennis Prager. What is the best thing happened to you this year? Getting employed by PragerU. (laughs) Number one. And moving to L.A. I love it here. Okay, last question: What is your favorite sound? Oh, my favorite sound... Rain? It's a good sound. I like the sound of rain when I'm reading, or going to sleep. I like that. That's a good sound. Yeah. It doesn't rain here in L.A., so... I never get to hear that. (sighs) That's okay... you guys have the sunshine... That's okay. Well, thank you for watching. (laughs) Have a good one. (waves) Bye.
What's up guys this is Will Witt with PragerU. Today we're at the University of Minnesota, it's the coldest I've ever been and we're asking people today about Pearl Harbor, it's significance and what they know about it. Let's get started. When did Pearl Harbor take place? "Nineteen sixties sometime?" "I feel like it's somewhere in the 80s." "1914 or something." 1914? "Yeah, it went with World War I?" World War II. If you switch the four and the one, you're right it's 1941. Do you know the day? "Uhhh...No." "I say November 11th or May 7th." "Those are my two days I'm thinking of." It's December 7th, 1941. Where is Pearl Harbor located? "Is it... Okay. It's either off the coast of Florida or Hawaii, ish?" Which one? 50/50 "I'm gonna go with Florida?" It was Hawaii. "Dang it!" Is it as cold up there as it is down here? "In Hawaii?" Do you know who attacked Pearl Harbor? "I'm not, I'm done." So cold. The attack on Pearl Harbor when did that take place? "December 7th, 1941." Where is Pearl Harbor located? "Hawaii." Who attacked us at Pearl Harbor? "The Japanese." Why is it important to know about Pearl Harbor and what happened? "It started American involvement in World War II." "It was the first major attack on U.S. soil." "And the only way that the Allies could come back and win, was with our help. It helped the world out a great deal." Do you think that you should know more about Pearl Harbor? "I do think I should." Yeah. Why do you think that? "Because it's an important piece of our history and, like it's important for people to be informed. Otherwise, you know, like similar situations could arise, and you know like history's taught a lot of lessons, so yes it's important." Did you learn something today? "I did, thank you." You're welcome.
If someone suggested to you that Americans should reject representative government and return to the rule of kings, you would laugh. This is America, you would say. In our revolution, we got rid of monarchy. And, of course, you'd be right but only to a point. Monarchy is making a comeback though not in the way you think. Let me explain. A king is one person. Get rid of him and you might get your freedom back. But what do you do when the nation has come to be controlled by thousands of little kings almost supreme in their specialized fiefdoms who have vast power over your life, much as a king might? Good question, because that's what we're up against. This regime is called the administrative state. Its little kings are unelected bureaucrats, officially known as administrators, secretaries, or even czars. And, make no mistake, they are very powerful. Their decisions affect us every day. The FDA, the FCC, the SEC, and so on and so on. Put together almost any three or four random letters and chances are you've stumbled on a government agency. These agencies and the people in them shape our lives often for the worse. Many farmers in California lost their livelihoods because the Fish and Wildlife Service decided that the delta smelt (a tiny fish) was more important than the farmers' water supply. That decision may have been right, or it may have been wrong. My point is simply that the decision should have been made by our lawmakers who are accountable to us at the next election. Those farmers are among the millions of hard-working people directly hurt by the administrative state. And many more millions have been indirectly hurt such as all those discouraged from even starting a business by miles of bureaucratic red tape. This is not an argument against government regulation per se, but against regulation imposed by bureaucrats rather than by our elected lawmakers whom we can hold accountable at the next election. Here's the larger danger: As bureaucracy grows, individual freedom diminishes. How did we get into this mess? And, more importantly, how do we get out of it? America's Founders recognized the problem. They didn't like being told what to do by people they hadn't voted for. They built all kinds of protections into the U.S. Constitution, starting with its very first line after the Preamble: All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. All legislative powers, not some. This means only Congress can make the nation's laws. Congress thus cannot divest itself of that power to a bureaucracy. And that's how America operated for most of its first hundred years. This changed when many Americans such as Woodrow Wilson fell in love with centralized bureaucratic power. Wilson was a university professor before he moved into politics and eventually became president in 1912. A self-described progressive reformer, he was impatient for power. He wasn't interested in persuading the American people to come over to his point of view that would take too long. So instead, he aimed to shift lawmaking power out of Congress and into the hands of a professional class of government workers in other words, bureaucrats. Franklin Roosevelt (who served in Wilson's cabinet) perfected his mentor's vision when he became president. For him, as for Wilson, there were few problems administrative power couldn't solve. FDR's presidency produced an alphabet soup of new government programs that vastly expanded the administrative state. And since then, it has grown even more dramatically. Congress still passes laws. But it leaves it to the bureaucracy to fill in the gaps. And these gaps can be enormous. Consider, for example, the Affordable Care Act of 2009 what came to be known as ObamaCare. The bill itself was over 2,500 pages, but Congress left much unspecified. So, career government officials elected by no one went to work. And by 2013, there were an additional 10,000 pages of regulations So, how do we rein in these faceless monarchs? First, Congress should actually do its job and take responsibility for the laws it passes. Don't hold your breath. But they at least could do this: Congress should end legal immunity for bureaucrats who abuse their power. If they know they can be sued, they'll be a lot more sober about imposing rules others have to live by. Second, the courts should do their job. They must follow the law. That means protecting our constitutional freedoms, including our right to representative government. No more bureaucratic rule-making. And, finally, we have to do our job. We must assert our freedom in conversation, on the web, and in the courts. We don't want to be ruled by a king or thousands of little kings. As the Founders would have said, "No regulation without representation." I'm Philip Hamburger, professor of law at Columbia Law School and president of the New Civil Liberties Alliance, for Prager University.
Every sense of an immigration policy has two objectives: One, to regain control of our borders, so that we decide who enters. And two, to find a humane way, to deal with the 11 million illegal immigrants, who now live among us. Start with the second: For both practical and moral reasons, America cannot, and will not, and should not expel 11 million people. That leaves us with two choices: ignore them or figure out a way to legalize them. Ignoring them hasnt worked, but theres also a huge problem with legalization. It creates an irresistible insentive, for new illegal immigrants to come. We say, of course, that this will be the very last, very final, never again were-not-kidding-this-time amnesty, and everyone knows it's phony. Thats what we said in 1986, when we passed the "Simpson-Mazzoli Immigration Reform"; It turned out to be the largest legalization program in American history; nearly 3 million people got premnant residency; there was no enforcement. We now have 11 million new illegal immigrants, in our midst. The irony of this whole debate, which bitterly splits the country, is that there is a silver bullet, that will not just solve the problem, but also to create a national concensus behind it. A vast number of Americans who oppose legalization, and fear new waves of immigration would change their minds, if we could radically reduce new i.e. future illegal immigration; and we can. First: build a barrier. Call it a wall, call it a fence, call it what you will. Add cameras, and sensors; add drones, Beef off the patrols, all that matters is that we regain control of the border. Fences work. The triple fence outside San Diego led to a 90% reduction in infiltration Israel's boarder fence at the West Bank produced a similar decline. Even holier-than-thou Europeans have conceded the point. Hungary, Macedonia, Bulgaria Austria, Greece, Spain, why even Norway have all started building border fences to stem the tide of Middle Eastern refugees. Then enforce two other measures. A national E-Verify system that makes it just about impossible to work if you are here illegally and a functioning visa tracking system since 40% of illegal immigrants are visa overstays. The wall/fence will of course be ugly. So are the concrete barriers to keep truck bombs from driving into the White House. Sometimes function has to supersede form. And don't tell me that this is our Berlin Wall. When you build a wall to keep people in, that's a prison. When you build a wall to keep people out, that's an expression of sovereignty. Of course no barrier will be foolproof. But it doesn't have to be. It simply has to reduce the river to a manageable trickle. Once we do everything becomes possible. Including dealing with our 11 million illegal immigrants. So let's fix that. Track the visas, do E-Verify build the damn barrier. It's ridiculous to say that it can't be done. And who would certify that the border is back in our control? I would have a neutral party, perhaps a commission of retired jurists, issue the judgement. Once they do we legalize the 11 million granting them the right to stay and work here. We can't give them citizenship. That's a bridge too far. You don't get to join the political destiny of the country by entering it illegally. But any children born here would be American, which means that over time the issue resolves itself. The American people are legitimately angry at the price the American society has paid due to illegal immigration. But they are also a generous people. Once they're assured that we do indeed control our borders, that anger will abate. A national consensus will emerge. Radical border control followed by radical legalization. No mushy compromise. A solution requires two acts of national will. Putting up a wall, along with E-Verify, and visa tracking, and absorbing those who broke our laws to come into America. This is not a compromise meant to appease both sides without achieving anything. It's not some piece of hybrid legislation that arbitrarily divides illegals into those with five year old roots in America and those without. Or some such mischief making nonsense. If we do it right not only will we solve the problem we will get it done as one nation. I'm Charles Krauthammer for Prager University.
Why do we spend so much money on Israel? Over my decades of military service, as the Deputy Commander of United States European Command and now as a security advisor, I've often heard people make this complaint. The truth is we don't spend enough. We should spend more. And for purely selfish reasons. Every dollar we spend on Israel is a dollar spent, in effect, in our own defense. As a value proposition, it's all in America's favor. Let me explain, but before I do let me say this: I can easily defend why America supports Israel on moral grounds alone. I've been there on numerous occasions. It's a good and decent country. Given the neighborhood it lives in, I find that both remarkable and admirable. But I will make this argument solely on the basis of America's security. Our partnership with Israel is unique. Unlike most of our current treaty alliances -- say with South Korea -- our ties with Jerusalem are not premised on American troops serving as tripwires on Israel's frontlines. This is because Israel takes care of itself. America, for good reason, remains wary of any further military engagement in the Middle East. And this only strengthens the case for giving Israel the tools it needs to defend its borders. Here are three things we can do again, all in our own self-interest. First, the United States should front load its financial commitment to Israel. We have agreed to provide Israel $38 billion in defense assistance over ten years. That's a big number, but it's also a great deal for America. In addition to giving Israel the financial wherewithal to purchase the weapons it needs, it also benefits the American economy. Under the agreement, Israel must spend these funds on U.S. products. And it's happy to do so. Without adding a cent to the total, the United States should front-load this assistance to reflect the changing strategic situation in the Middle East, specifically the rising danger presented by Iran and its proxies Hezbollah and Hamas. An accelerated timetable would allow Israel to acquire critical capabilities like more F-35 air attack squadrons, more air refueling tankers and more precision munitions. It will need this hardware to defend itself and American interests against these persistent, and growing, threats. Second, the United States should enhance our alliance with Israel. It may surprise you to know that the United States does not have a defense treaty with this essential ally lots of agreements, but no treaty. We should. Why is this important? Because it will send a loud strategic signal to Israel's enemies that if you mess with Israel, you mess with us. Israel is not going to ask us for troops. But we should be giving them anything else they need -- intelligence, weapons technology and other vital information. And we know this is a two-way street. Israel gives a lot in return. Which leads me to the third point. The United States and Israel should build on their already close collaboration in research and development. Israel is one of the most high-tech economies in the world. American investors understand this. More venture capital is spent per capita in Israel than in any other country. Nine out of the ten largest companies have R&D facilities there. This is in a country of just 8 million people. When we sell them military gear, they adapt it to their own special needs. The American military, in turn, benefits from these innovations, especially in the area of desert warfare. Indeed, President Obama's Defense Secretary Ashton Carter made this point. There's no question that American lives have been saved by Israeli technology. There are many cutting-edge projects we can work on together, such as directed-energy weapons. This new form of cannon emits highly-focused energy to neutralize targets. Such weapons will be needed to counter the spread of cheap, deadly and plentiful mortars and drones from Iran and other bad actors. All this explains why I find it so infuriating to see Americans, especially young Americans, support anti-Israel groups like BDS Boycott, Divest, Sanction that want to weaken and destroy Israel. Putting aside the perverse logic of these groups -- that we should punish a free and open democracy -- it's self-destructive. Israel is on the front line of terror. They, not us, are within missile range of Iran, Syria, Hezbollah and Hamas. To the extent these enemies of freedom are held in check, they are held in check by Israel. And, they ask from us not one US soldier -- only for military aid, which they spend on American defense products to help defend American interests. We should give them that aid without reservation. Sure, it costs us treasure. But it saves us blood. Our blood. It's also the right thing to do. I'm General Chuck Wald, United States Air Force, for Prager University.
What are association health plans? Health care is a big issue for families and businesses. Health care costs have skyrocketed for the past decade and some of the biggest price increases have been for small businesses, which don't have the buying power to spread the risk across many employees like large corporations. They often have few choices for insurance and have to pay a lot more to cover their employees. One way to fix this problem is by expanding something called association health plans, which allow small businesses to band together to negotiate better prices. The Department of Labor has proposed a new rule that would expand association health plans to allow small business to participate in them. Many of the burdensome regulations and costs that are passed on by insurance companies to employers would not apply to association health plans. This would allow association health plans to operate across state lines, which will result in more choice and lower prices. Small businesses would be on a more equal playing field with their big business competitors. If association health plans are expanded as the labor department has proposed, health care costs for tens of millions of small businesses and their employees would fall dramatically, finally bringing some relief to one of the biggest victims of rising health care costs.
There is active racial discrimination going on at Harvard right now. We tend to think of discrimination to something in the past. It doesn't go on anymore, but it is going on in the most egregious way at our top schools. Harvard is actively discriminating against Asians And we have seen this in a 2013 report which Harvard tried to get rid of. In that report, we saw that they marked Asians collectively as a group as having less positive personalities as being less likeable and less kind. This is absurd because there's no such thing as an "Asian personality". Each Asian is an individual and has their own personality. Each Asian should be treated as such. Harvard even said: "Abandoning race conscious admissions would diminish the excellence of a Harvard education." Well, I'm sorry Harvard, but that kind of admissions policy is not excellent. It's actually racist, and people should be accepted into Harvard based on their merits not based on their race. So why is the media not outraged about this. If this were to happen to black people - If let's say Harvard was claiming that black people were not as positive of a group as other people, Of course, they would be outraged and rightly so, because racial discrimination against anyone is wrong. I'm Danielle D'Souza go for PragerU. Please like comment and share this video so that more people can see The racial discrimination going on at Harvard right now.
What's up guys? This is Will Wit with Prager you today. We're at byu-idaho here in Rexburg. It's freezing and in unison with my video " Do you have any Republican friends?" We're gonna be asking people here if they have any Democrat friends, let's get started. Would you consider yourself conservative or left-wing? Conservative definitely. More conservative for sure. Republican. More Republican. Okay, would you be friends with a Democrat? Yeah. Yes. Yeah, definitely. Do you guys have any Republican friends? No, thank god. No. - Why not? - I wouldn't be friends with someone who's Republican. It's a much more liberal City, because there's so many different diverse people that you really can't be very big.. Racists or biggoted it in or anything like that. You have to be pretty open-minded. Would you be friends with a Democrat? I would if they would be open to just hearing my views, instead of just shutting me down. That's what I've seen a lot with some Democrat friends Why do you think it is that the people who are Democrats, people on the Left, don't want to talk to conservatives? I think they think that we're not thinking of other people as people from what I've heard them talk about they think we're just looking at facts and numbers because our arguments are so it sounds mean, but logical and their arguments are so emotional. They just feel personally offended sometimes when I bring up certain arguments, so it's hard to really have a Fair discussion. So you wouldn't be my friend? Probably not. Ouch. How do we, how do we fix that? How do we bridge the gap in the divide? just By how we live I think actions do speak louder than words. I guess just Continuing to have calm conversations just showing them that we're willing to talk but not if it's gonna get heated. So I guess if you meet in the middle and then, Don't go so so far right-wing or so far left-wing, you know? Then you can you can sort of meet in the middle on some of your beliefs and then that can bridge the gap. I suppose we just have to show that we are thinking of people as people, and try to ask them to think of more logical arguments, and if we can both just argue in similar ways not even argue just discuss argue makes it sound so angry If we can just discuss in more similar ways, then we're gonna actually have a ground to discuss upon. Get logical leftists. That's what we got to do.
When did sports get so political? When did ESPN become MSNBC? When did Colin Kaepernick become Mahatma Gandhi? I love sports. I always have. Growing up, I played every sport I could. Michael Jordan and Bo Jackson posters adorned the walls of my room. Sports remains my passion and for two decades has been my career. I love that sports allows us a break from daily worries, to lose ourselves in the game where the rules are clear, where talent reigns supreme, and surprise is always possible. And I love sports not only for my own selfish reasons, but for what it does for the nation. Sports brings together people of all backgrounds to, you know, root, root, root for the home team. No other form of entertainment does this. Sure, a movie might be great, but you don't see Democrats and Republicans hugging and high- fiving after watching Tropic Thunder. I'm not done. Sports are a living civics lesson. Think about it. Every team represents its community a city, a college, a high school. It is, after all, the New York Yankees. The player who wears the team uniform represents that community. ' Now let's take it one step further: a soldier, also in uniform, represents his country. He is a member, in effect, of the nation's team. The flag and the anthem are symbols of that team. That's why every professional sports event in America begins with the National Anthem. When you stand for the Anthem you are not only cheering for the home team, but for the nation. In short, we begin every sports contest united. Then, of course, it's game on. But the lesson has been taught. Unfortunately, the unifying power of sports is being trashed. Who is responsible? The worst culprits are, ironically, the very people who cover sports in the first place the sports media. How did this happen? There are, of course, many factors. But a good place to start is with four letters: ESPN. 24/7 sports news and highlights -- every fan's dream. That is, until a few years ago. That's when ESPN realized that it was losing its clout. Their answer? A new approach: Sports mixed with politics. ESPN replaced ratings bonuses with diversity bonuses; gave woke analysts like Jemele Hill, Max Kellerman, and Bomani Jones their own shows; and an anti- American former backup quarterback, Colin Kaepernick, more airtime than he got playing time. And because ESPN leads the field, much of the sports media followed suit. The result? When you go to the sports section of USA Today or Yahoo or even Sports Illustrated, you're as likely to read about players' thoughts on the President as you are about their thoughts on the game. Here's how insane this has gotten: In August 2017 ESPN pulled 40-year-old Asian American play-by-play announcer Robert Lee from calling a University of Virginia college football game in Charlottesville, Virginia. Why? Because in the wake of the violent Charlottesville protests surrounding the removal of the statue of Confederate general Robert E. Lee, ESPN didn't want to trigger its viewers. So, an Asian American named Robert Lee couldn't comment on a game because of incident involving a statue of Robert E. Lee. No, I'm not kidding. You'd think that sports reporters, the guys who eat, drink and sleep sports, wouldn't put up with this nonsense; that they'd know politics has no place on the field. But you'd be wrong. They're just as political as their news desk colleagues. Why? Because they're afraid of being called racist or sexist, because they want to be friends with the athletes, because they want to think of themselves as serious journalists, and because they come from the same journalism schools as the political reporters. And because, yes, they're overwhelmingly on the left. Sorry, that's just a fact. Over 80% of sports journalists, according to a survey from The Big Lead, voted for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election. Less than 4% voted for the other candidate you know, the guy who won. And do we know who those 4% are? Of course not. They want to keep their jobs. So, how's this new business strategy working out for ESPN? Since 2011, the network has been losing about 2 million subscribers per year. It hasn't turned out any better for the NFL. The league has lost nearly 20 percent of its viewership since 2016. But you don't see me celebrating. We need sports. We need that break from our everyday cares. We need its unique ability to unite our communities, our nation. We need the civics lesson. What else brings Americans together? It certainly isn't politics. I'm Clay Travis, host of Outkick the Show, for Prager University.
They snatched off my headdress I Yeah, that's harassment. They snatched on my headdress. We got the black pilgrim here. They snatched it off this entire class They were stalking us and they ripped off my stuff great What's up guys This is will wit wood tribe PragerU and today we went to California state University northridge to give out a pumpkin pie and ask people what they're thankful for Unfortunately, it got a little out of hand and crazy and we ended up getting chased off campus take a look And we respect your First Amendment rights, thank you Why not me why not me the Native Americans class came out to yell at us! For you to come out here and just like I think you could just wear this with like no meaning is like Why specifically it's offensive. It's a caricature Like you guys are like literally playing and like you're dressed as a pilgrim, you know, there's no offense But there was like no black people as pilgrims like they were fricking wrecking ur s*** -There actually was. There were black pilgrims. Okay, but what about the Native then? Hey, I'm sorry about that. Thanksgiving us celebrating. Peace It's them coming together and having a dinner together The first Thanksgiving feast was to celebrate the slaughter of Native Americans It actually wasn't quite the first feast wasn't really watering but nobody celebrates it like that now Typically a class you would spend reading books. So they sent a whole class This Native American class is now sent out to come in and talk to us. I Damn, I was a ghoul! (?) Don't identify the man of color it's not telling me that stop calling me that They snatched off my headdress That is- yeah it's harassment! It's not your campus All right guys you just witnessed what we had to go through here at california state university northridge pretty insane Some people came up to us started yelling at us And then one of the Native American professors actually when she got her entire class to come out and yell at us and call us Racists it told me as a person to call her that I should be ashamed of myself For being friends with Will, you should white people are disgusting white people are disgusting guys Thank you so much for watching share this video with your friends. Get out What is going on on college campuses like comment and let us know we should do for the next one will wit black Mike? PragerU. See ya.
All throughout Western Europe where migrants have come rape violence and other crimes have all gone up What's up guys this is will witt with PraegerU and open border policies are destroying Europe Let's talk about Paris. The city of lights too. Bad Paris is no longer Paris It's now infested with rats graffiti high crime sexual assault just to name a few Muslim migrants have set up migrant camps all across Paris that's littered with trash and debris and with the influx of these migrants 40% of hate crimes are committed against Jews alone and Jews only make up one percent of the population in France and don't even try To say something against this in France Eric. Zamora was fined by Paris courts for claiming that there was a Muslim invasion And what about Germany where the German president said There are no native Germans and more than half of the welfare recipients in Germany are now migrants German born citizens native Germans are subsidizing these immigrants coming to these countries And what about London where the police are more worried about catching people using hate speech on Facebook instead of the actual crime That is destroying their city. Acid attacks are on the rise in London and just last year 23,000 crimes were committed on mopeds compared to the 827 of 2012 and the left claims if you say something against that You're a racist but is it racist to say the migrant men in the Netherlands took 1,400 underage girls as sex slaves? Is it racist to say that 85% of migrants in holland are still unemployed? Is it racist simply to state what's going on in these countries? Leftist politicians in Europe sure think so and they will shame you if you say anything against the migrants coming to their countries French president macarons said the migration is Frances destiny an angle of Merkel's said that we just have to accept the migrants commit higher crimes Seems pretty clear what these politicians want. This mass immigration to Europe is not a melting pot of culture These people are not assimilating. It is forced multiculturalism That is destroying Europe because if you care about what's happening in Europe Like share and subscribe and follow me and PragerU on social media. Thank you everybody for watching. This is will wit with PragerU, see you next time
In Plymouth, Massachusetts, in the autumn of 1621, 53 men, women and children celebrated their first harvest in the New World. The great Indian chief, Massasoit, brought 90 of his men to the three-day party. From all reports, a good time was had by all. How did this event, which happened almost 400 years ago, become a part of the American story and our oldest national tradition? Credit goes to many people, but two stand out. One you know, and one you should know: Abraham Lincoln and Sarah Josepha Hale. More on both in a moment. As a religious people, Americans have always had a keen sense they have been blessed by Providence. The pilgrims certainly felt this, and so did subsequent generations, including George Washington. Washington was the first president to declare a national day of public thanksgiving and praise. But it wasn't until the Civil War that the idea of a national Day of Thanksgiving fully took hold. In the autumn of 1863 - at the height of the Civil War, when Americans were bitterly divided - Abraham Lincoln nevertheless called for a day of national thanksgiving. Lincoln began his proclamation this way: The year that is drawing toward its close has been filled with the blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies. It was an extraordinary way to characterize 1863 - the bloodiest year of the war. But even in the midst of a civil war of unequaled severity and magnitude, Lincoln continued, the nation had much to be thankful for and much to look forward to. The day was coming when America would again be united and experience, as Lincoln put it, a large increase of freedom. It was a profoundly hopeful message, reminding Americans of their nation's capacity for renewal. Lincoln's decision to call for a national Thanksgiving came at the urging of a far-sighted and persistent magazine editor who believed such a celebration would have a deep moral influence on the American character. Her name was Sarah Josepha Hale. More than any single person, she is the reason we celebrate Thanksgiving today. By the 1840s, many states had established an annual day of thanksgiving, but the date varied widely from state to state. Hale saw the value of a day in which the entire nation celebrated as one. For two decades, she conducted a campaign to consolidate public support for her idea. As the influential editor of one of the most popular periodicals of the 19th century, year after year she wrote columns making the case for the holiday; she published fiction and poems with a Thanksgiving Day theme; and she offered her readers recipes for traditional Thanksgiving dishes such as roast turkey and pumpkin pie. And, by the way, she also wrote the nursery rhyme, Mary Had a Little Lamb. Presidents Zachary Taylor, Millard Fillmore, and Franklin Pierce, to whom she had written letters, showed little interest in her cause. But Lincoln saw its potential. His proclamation was the first in what became an unbroken string of annual Thanksgiving proclamations by every subsequent president. Congress finally sealed the deal in 1941, when President Franklin Roosevelt signed legislation making Thanksgiving an official national holiday. Lincoln and Hale believed the act of expressing gratitude had tremendous healing power. In his Thanksgiving proclamation, Lincoln spoke not as commander-in-chief of the Union forces, but as president of the entire nation - North and South. He made no reference to rebels or enemies. Rather, the president spoke of the whole American people. It's a message that resonates today, when Americans, even within families, are divided over issues of politics and culture. Thanksgiving, our nation's oldest tradition, brings us together just as it brought the pilgrims and Indians together in 1621. Lincoln said it best when he called on every American to celebrate Thanksgiving with one heart and one voice. Thanksgiving gives us a moment to focus on the blessings of being Americans, on the prosperity, security and freedom we enjoy. If Lincoln could focus on these blessings in the middle of the Civil War, we should certainly be able to do so today. Here's a suggestion: at this year's Thanksgiving table, ask everyone to spend a minute to say what they are grateful for. I suspect you'll find your guests will have a long and eloquent list. And if they don't, you can help them out: suggest they start with family, friends, and living in the freest country in the world. After all, if we don't give thanks, what's the point of Thanksgiving? I'm Melanie Kirkpatrick, senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and author of Thanksgiving: The Holiday at the Heart of the American Experience, for Prager University.
In case you hadn't noticed, life is difficult, complex and unpredictable. You can't change this. It's the nature of things. But you can prepare yourself for the next unwelcome surprise. How? By building resilience. Resilience is the ability to bounce back from life's inevitable disappointments, failures, and pains. Let me use an analogy here. If cars didn't have shock absorbers, every ride would be a miserable experience. The ride through life without shock absorbers that is, resilience would be the same. So, without building resilience your own internal shock absorbers it's not possible to lead a happy and productive life. Resilience is the opposite of fragility. To be fragile means that just about everything upsets you. And if just about everything upsets you, you will spend a lot of time angry and hurt. And if you spend a lot of time angry and hurt, you will not be a happy person. Here, I'm not focusing on severe illness, the death of a loved one or any crushing life-changing event. In such cases, people usually need help to recover. But for most of us, such situations are rare while the slights and disappointments of ordinary life are not. And for those, we need resilience. OK, then. How do you develop resilience? Here are some suggestions to get you started, drawn from my forty-plus years as a psychiatrist. First, get some perspective. Step back and assess your situation with as much objectivity as you can. How bad is this problem? Have I overstated it? Sometimes my patients think an unhappy occurrence is much more serious than it really is usually because it's amplified by evoking a painful childhood issue. Often getting perspective is as simple as asking yourself this question: What's the worst thing that can happen? Usually you'll discover the worst thing isn't that bad and isn't even likely to happen. Second, compare the undeserved bad things that have happened to you with the unearned good things that have happened to you. When I ask my patients to do this, they invariably conclude that the unearned good in their life far outweighs the undeserved bad. I'd say the ratio is at least 10 to 1. In my own case, I didn't earn the incredibly good fortune of my grandparents moving to America, or that life-saving penicillin was available to me in my childhood when I was sick. I could go on and on. And so could you. In light of this, maybe things aren't so bad after all. In fact, they're probably pretty good. Third, toughen up. Life hits you from all directions health, personal relationships, work challenges, family issues. To deal with them, you need to build up your mental toughness. The earlier in life one starts this process, the better. That's why parents who coddle their children and protect them from every hurt and failure are not doing them any favors. Nor are colleges that provide students with so-called safe spaces. To toughen up, you need to push yourself. How do you know what you're capable of if you don't do that? I was a sickly child. I saw myself as physically fragile. But the grueling hours in medical school and treating patients with serious illnesses during my residency showed me I was much tougher than I thought. You, too, probably have more strength than you realize. Find out. Finding that strength will give you resilience. Fourth, be the architect of your own fate. Although there are many times in life when we can't control circumstances, there are very few times when we can't control how we react to them. The late Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Charles Krauthammer provides an inspiring example of this. Krauthammer became a quadriplegic in medical school following a freak diving accident. Rather than wallow in self-pity, Krauthammer resolved to finish his medical studies from his hospital bed. He did and without missing a single semester! Fifth, take an honest inventory of your life. Make a real effort to discover how you have contributed to your own misery. In other words, how many of your life's speed bumps have you created? This will help you see that the ability to change your life lies as much within you as in external circumstances. You can then avoid those behaviors that expose you to failure or difficulty. Focus on your power, not your helplessness. And the greatest power anyone has is the capacity to change. You can certainly experience happy moments without resilience. But to lead a happy life, it's essential. I'm Dr. Stephen Marmer, psychiatrist, UCLA Medical School, for Prager University.
It would be only a slight exaggeration to say that Alexander Hamilton invented the United States of America. George Washington was the guiding star; Thomas Jefferson, the visionary; and Benjamin Franklin, the sage. But Hamilton was the pragmatist, the man who got it done. This most self-made of self-made men took a country with no past and planned its future. He was born on January 11, 1755 on the island of Nevis. This was not the Caribbean of your cruise fantasy - quite the contrary. As Ron Chernow writes in his biography of Hamilton, While other founding fathers were reared in tidy New England villages or cosseted on baronial Virginia estates, [Hamilton] grew up in a tropical hellhole... Sugar plantation slave auctions were a regular feature of island life. The spectacle - buyers swinging branding irons as they surveyed the human merchandise - made a permanent impression on Hamilton: He was a fierce abolitionist his entire life. Abandoned by his father at an early age, his mother died of yellow fever when he was 14, leaving the teenage boy destitute. A local judge had to buy him shoes so that he could attend her funeral. He soon took a job as clerk for a local merchant. Before long, he was running the business - coordinating shipments of mules and codfish, calculating currency exchanges, and advising sea captains on how to deal with pirates. It was an unmatchable apprenticeship in trade, credit, and commerce. In 1773, he arrived in New York to attend King's College, the forerunner of today's Columbia University. Swept up in the revolutionary fervor of his adopted country, he dropped out to join the Continental Army. He quickly came to the attention of George Washington, who made him a staff officer. The sonless Washington called the fatherless Hamilton my boy. Fellow officers later remembered Call Colonel Hamilton as Washington's instinctive utterance when important news arrived. As Washington's trusted aide, he was involved in every aspect of running the war, including actual fighting, where he distinguished himself on multiple occasions. But more than anything, it was his dealings with the weak and indecisive Continental Congress that shaped his political views. The problem with the Congress, in Hamilton's view, was that too few members took the idea of nationhood seriously. They quarreled over their narrow interests rather than uniting over the national interest. As the war was winding down, Hamilton laid out the choice before the country in a widely read six-part essay. We could become a noble and magnificent federal republic, he wrote, closely linked in the pursuit of a common interest or we could stumble ahead as a number of petty states, with the appearance only of union It was clear where Hamilton stood. The speed by which the United States became a unified nation with a cohesive federal government is largely a result of his tireless efforts before, during, and after the Constitutional Convention. Washington named Hamilton, still only 34, to be the first Secretary of the Treasury. He served in the post for almost six years. His task was nothing short of Herculean: put the country, drowning in war debt and teetering on the edge of bankruptcy, on a sound financial footing. He succeeded, and in doing so set the course for America to become the world's most prosperous nation. Historian Leonard White writes that Hamilton was not only the greatest administrative genius of his generation but one of the great administrators of all time. There's no telling what Hamilton might have achieved had he lived a longer life. Instead, he died one of the most pointless deaths in American history. As hard as it is to fathom today, he was killed in a duel with the Vice President of the United States, Aaron Burr, a man with whom he had a long and bitter political feud. Hamilton fired his pistol harmlessly into the air. He never intended to kill Burr. To Hamilton, it was an affair of honor. But to Burr, it was something else. The Vice President took careful aim, shot and mortally wounded his rival, who spent some 30 hours in agony before succumbing. Hamilton was 49. Hamilton lived in a time when the great danger to the national project was a government that was too weak. We live in a time when many believe that the great danger to the nation is from a national government grown too strong. The ideal, Hamilton would have told us, is somewhere in between. But perhaps America will have to wait for another Hamilton to achieve that happy medium. I'm Joseph Tartakovsky, senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, for Prager University.
I recently watched a group of protestors, most of them young, denouncing President Donald Trump's immigration policies. They were waving Mexican flags and shouting: Si, se puede! - "Yes, we can! This is now the rallying cry of the open-borders left, but it wasn't always. In fact, I wondered if a single person at the protest knew where it came from. The slogan first became famous fifty years ago, thanks to Cesar Chavez. He was the founder of the United Farm Workers union. When Chavez said Si, se puede, he meant something very different: Yes, we can seal the borders. Cesar Chavez hated illegal immigration. He was Hispanic, obviously, and definitely on the left, but he fought to keep illegal Mexican immigrants out of this country. He understood that peasants from Latin America will always work for less than Americans will. That's why employers prefer them. Chavez knew that. As long as we have a poor country bordering California, he once explained, it's going to be very difficult to win strikes. In 1969, Chavez led a march down the center of California to protest the hiring of illegal immigrant produce pickers. Marching alongside him was Democratic Senator Walter Mondale, and the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, the longtime aide to Martin Luther King. Ten years later, Chavez dispatched armed union members into the desert to assault Mexican nationals who were trying to sneak across the border. Chavez's men beat immigrants with chains and whips made of barbed wire. Illegal aliens who dared to work as scabs had their houses fire-bombed and their cars burned. Chavez wasn't embarrassed about any of this. He bragged about it. No matter. Chavez remains a progressive hero. President Obama declared his birthday a commemorative federal holiday. It's an official day off in half a dozen states. There's a college named after him, and dozens of public schools. Cesar Chavez's life is a reminder of how much the left has changed - and how quickly. Until recently, most Democrats agreed with Chavez. They opposed unchecked immigration because they knew it hurt American workers. And they were right. One study by a Harvard economist examined the effects of the mass migration of Cuban refugees to this country in 1980 - the so-called Mariel boatlift. He found that American workers in Miami with a high school education saw their wages fall by more than thirty percent after the refugees arrived. If you believe in supply and demand, this is not surprising. After the fall of Saigon in 1975, Democratic Governor Jerry Brown opposed letting Vietnamese refugees into California on the grounds that the state already had enough poor people. As he put it at the time, "There is something a little strange about saying, 'Let's bring in 500,000 more people' when we can't take care of the one million Californians out of work. First term Senator Joe Biden of Delaware agreed; he introduced federal legislation to curb the arrival of the Vietnamese. Two decades later, leading Democrats were still wary of mass immigration, especially illegal immigration. As Bill Clinton put it in the 1995 State of the Union address, Americans are rightly disturbed by the large numbers of illegal aliens entering our country. The jobs they hold might otherwise be held by citizens or legal immigrants. The public services they use impose burdens on our taxpayers. No prominent Democrat would say anything like that today without being denounced as a racist. Clinton got a standing ovation. As late as 2006, there were still liberals who cared about the economic effects of immigration, legal or illegal. Immigration reduces the wages of domestic workers who compete with immigrants, explained economist Paul Krugman in the New York Times. We'll need to reduce the inflow of low-skilled immigrants. Mainly, that means better controls on illegal immigration. That same year, Senator Hillary Clinton voted for a fence on the Mexican border. So did Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer and 23 other Senate Democrats. Not anymore. Twenty years after Bill Clinton told Americans they had the right to be upset about illegal immigration, his wife scolded the country for enforcing border controls. So, what changed? Not the economics of it. The law of supply and demand remained in effect. It's not a coincidence that as illegal immigration surged, wages for American workers stagnated. What changed is that Democrats stopped caring about those workers. About the middle class, really. Why? Here's the answer, in four simple facts. One: According to a recent study from Yale, there are at least 22 million illegal immigrants living in the United States. Two: Democrats plan to give all of them citizenship. Read the Democrats' 2016 party platform. Three: Studies show the overwhelming majority of first-time immigrant voters vote Democrat. Four: The biggest landslide in American presidential history was only 17 million votes. The payoff for Democrats: permanent electoral majority for the foreseeable future. In a word: power. That's the point, no matter what they tell you; American workers be damned. I'm Tucker Carlson.
Hola amigos this is Will Witt with Prager U today We're at UCLA talking to college students and on Olvera Street talking to Hispanics in honor of Halloween and to see if my outfit is offensive (Laughter) Dang it Would you guys like to chat with us today That's why you want to talk to you about hola Do you find my outfit offensive [yes] to a certian extent do you find it offensive? Maybe a little you think my outfit is offensive Are you Mexican? No, yes, I think it reaffirms stereotypes that are offensive to people You think people really think Mexican people are like this and carry around marachos? no, I don't think people actually think that do you find my outfit offensive? Yes Yeah, why? Because it's not your culture cultural appropriation. Why do you say that Mexican food is like cultural appropriation no Someone else's culture that we've kind of taken Is this cultural appropriation No comment You don't really understand what their culture means and what it means to wear these things like the hats and the maracas You sort of have to understand where all of this comes from for it to not be cultural appropriation It's not yours Can I just ask you do you like my costume I like you your message Lovely, this is my outfit offends you no. No you look nice. Thank you. Do you like my costume? Yes, does it offend you? No, no not that's good me Guapo Cava are you guys insulting me? Salting me in Spanish. Do you like them? Do you like my outfit? Oh, yeah. Awesome. It's my outfit offend, you know Some people get offended by what I'm wearing. No, it's not offensive. I think it's You're in the right atmosphere No notnot original Do you know who sold me this? No idea Mexicans. Oh, really? So you're white and you get offended but then Mexican people who sold me this and maybe this don't get offended Seems kind of weird, doesn't it? I love it. Actually, I think it's offensive. No, no, some people get really offended by this Why do you think that is I don't know just you're not Mexican. So people think that you have to be Mexican to wear that Celebrating Mexico and that's awesome you Mexican. I am see I'm Marinette Maybe we should swap out exactly
Hundreds of major American companies, including some of the nation's biggest employers like Walmart, The Home Depot, Bank of America, and AT&T are using their savings from the 2017 tax cuts to give their employees major pay raises and bonuses. This is a big win for American employees. But some companies are also using part of their tax cut savings for stock buybacks. Opponents of lower taxes are pointing to these to claim that tax cuts don't help ordinary people. But what are stock buybacks and how do they affect everyday Americans? Most companies don't own much of their stockoutside investors like people who have 401k plans or have mutual funds do. But how does this affect you? The biggest beneficiaries of stock buybacks are the millions of regular investors who benefit from boosted stock prices. If you have a 401k retirement plan, or a college investment account, or have a pension at work like a lot of teachers, firemen and police officers dostock buybacks boost the value of your savings. Giving everyone more money. Stock buybacks are just one-way companies are using their tax cuts savings. While not as glamorous as pay raises, new hiring, and expansion, they still are good news for the tens of millions of Americans trying to grow their retirement and savings nest egg.
Race and ethnicity have defined every nation on earth. Except one: the United States of America. It is defined by values. So, to understand America, you have to understand American values. They are: 1. E Pluribus Unum 2. Liberty 3. In God We Trust. I call this The American Trinity. I made up the name, but I didn't make up the values. They are on every American coin. The first, E Pluribus Unum, is Latin, meaning, Out of many, one. When first adopted as an American motto shortly after the American founding in 1776, it referred to the thirteen American colonies becoming one nation. Over time, however, most Americans understood the motto to mean one people from many backgrounds. To quote The E Pluribus Unum Project, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities, Over the years, E Pluribus Unum has also served as a reminder of America's bold attempt to make one unified nation of people from many different backgrounds and beliefs. In other words, America doesn't care about your national or ethnic origins. This explains why people who immigrate to America assimilate faster and more fully than immigrants to any other country. Most of those who have immigrated to Europe, from, for example, Turkey as millions have are not considered fully German by fellow Germans or fully Swedish by fellow Swedes or fully Spanish by fellow Spaniards. This is even true of the children and grandchildren of those immigrants. And, just as important, few of those immigrants or their children or grandchildren will ever feel fully German, Swedish, or Spanish. But a Turk who immigrates to the United States will be regarded as fully American as American as any other American the moment he or she becomes a citizen. And they and certainly their children will feel fully American. Of course, America has not always lived up to this e pluribus unum ideal. But the ideal was always there. And it was applied to virtually every immigrant to America. The second component of the American Trinity is liberty. Now, you might ask, Didn't the French Revolution also enshrine liberty as a central national value? Wasn't its motto Liberty, Equality, Fraternity? The answer is yes. America is hardly the only country to enshrine liberty; it is the only country to enshrine Liberty, E Pluribus Unum, and In God We Trust. What's the difference? The difference is this: The moment you affirm equality, as the French Revolution did, you will lose liberty. It is a basic American value that all human beings are born equal, and all must be equal before the law. But ending up equal that's a French and European value. And if you want people to end up equal, you must deprive them of liberty. Which is exactly what happened right after the French Revolution and in every other society that made equality its national goal. America gives people the liberty to end up wherever their abilities, work ethic, and luck take them meaning unequal. Therefore, professional athletes will make more money than teachers or doctors. That may be unfortunate, but that is what liberty allows. If you want equality, you will tell people how much they can earn and that means the end of liberty. And third, In God We Trust. Unlike almost every other country, America never had a state religion. But it was founded on the principle that God specifically, the God of the Bible is the source of moral values. As the Declaration of Independence put it, all people are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. In other words, rights come from God, not from men. If rights are given by men, men can take them away. The American Trinity is the reason America became the world's freest and most prosperous country. But many Americans want to, in the words of former President Barack Obama, "fundamentally transform" it. They wish to replace American values with European values equality of result and an ever-expanding state, which greatly reduce individual freedom; the celebration of ethnic and racial identity, which is the opposite of E Pluribus Unum; and the removal of God as the source of morality and rights. Which set of values Americans adopt will determine whether America remains free, prosperous, and the force for good in the world that it has been. With the exception of the Civil War, this is the greatest internal battle in American history. I'm Dennis Prager.
It's very easy for a politician to stand up before voters and say, Health care is a right, and then passionately advocate for single-payer or free health care or Medicare for All - whatever term they might use. But before we consider the merits of the government managing your health care - and that's what this all boils down to - maybe we should ask a more basic question: What do we mean by health care? Because if you get sick - and here, we're talking major illness - or you're in serious pain, you don't just want health care; you want quality health care. And where is your best chance of finding that? The answer is right here in America. For skilled doctors, cutting-edge medical treatments, and care without long delays, no other country rivals the United States. Not even close. Nobody from Texas is going to Canada for medical treatment. It's almost always the other way around. Sure, our health care system has lots of issues - and we should address them - but do we really want to upend all the advantages that we do have and start from scratch? Because that's what would have to happen if we completely turn health care over to the government. So, let's imagine we make the change. We hear a lot about how great free health care would be, but it's only fair we look at the downside. The first is that government-run healthcare takes medical decisions away from patients - that means you - and puts them in the hands of bureaucrats. They decide, for example, how many MRI machines are going to be available, or under what conditions you can get back surgery or a bypass, or even whether you qualify for cancer treatment. That's how it works in the United Kingdom under its single-payer system. Because it has finite resources, the National Health Service, or NHS, sharply restricts access to treatments like hip and knee replacements, cataract surgery, and even prescription drugs to deal with common conditions like arthritis and diabetes. If you suffer from any of these ailments and many others in the UK, you may just have to live with the pain. And let's hope you don't have a medical emergency. In a January 2018 article in the New York Times, patients in emergency rooms around London are described as having to wait 12 hours before they are tended to. Corridors are jammed with beds carrying [the] frail and elderly. To deal with the situation, hospitals [were] ordered to postpone non-urgent surgeries until the end of the month. That hardly seems like an improvement over what we have in the US. A second big problem with single-payer systems is that they are expensive - really expensive. A recent study by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University found that a Bernie Sanders-style Medicare-for-All health system would cost a tidy $32.6 trillion over ten years. That's on top of what the federal government spends on health care today. And this is not a new number. Other studies have found the cost to be roughly in the same range. So, how would we pay for it? Kenneth Thorpe, a professor at Emory University and health policy official in the Clinton Administration, spells it out: If you are going to go in this direction [Medicare-for-All] the tax increases are going to be enormous. Not just for the rich, Thorpe estimates, but for working Americans and the poor, too. Charles Blahous, the author of the Mercatus study, puts it this way: Even a doubling of all projected individual and corporate income taxes would be insufficient to finance these added federal costs. And he considers that a conservative estimate. Canada knows all about exploding health care costs. In Ontario, the country's biggest province, those costs took up 46% of its entire budget in 2010. By 2030, that number is projected to be 80%. In other words, in a few years, Ontario will have little money to pay for anything except health care. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, government-run systems depress the search for new cures. Biomedical research spending in the US far outpaces that of any country with nationalized health care, even when you account for differences in population or size of economies. That's one reason medical breakthroughs rarely come from countries where the government controls health care; they come from the United States, where the government doesn't. The lion's share of biomedical research and development spending in the US - over $70 billion in 2012 - comes from the private sector. Discovering new medical cures and technology is a profitable business - and thank goodness it is. Those profits drive innovation. Take away the profits and you will surely take away the innovation. Single-payer, free health care, Medicare-for-All: they might sound great, but like all visions of utopia, they ultimately produce a lot more harm than good. I'm Lanhee Chen, fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, for Prager University.
Thanksgiving. Independence Day. Memorial Day. Holidays are a great time to riddle Americans with needless, oppressive guilt. But the one that stands head an shoulders above the rest, is Columbus Day. The day where progressives indoctrinate your children into believing Columbus to be Satan incarnate, the USA to be his evil spawn and the Native Americans to be pacifists and so now we have Indigenous People's Day or as it would have been named thirty years ago, Aboriginals day, or as it would have been named ten or fifteen years ago, Native Americans day, or as it could be named tomorrow, in Canada, First Nations Peoples day. Feeling the urge to self-inflict grievous bodily harm yet? That's only natural because the whole charade has become an exercise in hating Western civilization which is really just an exercise in hating yourself. First, as far as Columbus goes, the guy deserves some credit, right? Flawed, to be sure, but he was the greatest navigator of his age, the first person to cross the Atlantic from the continent of Europe. And he did so without any maps and only three small ships. If you can name them, by the way, comment below, as I'm sure your professor can't. But your professor probably has taught you the tale of Columbus as a villain, usually as a starting off point to indict the United States as a whole, often relying on a few key myths and some pivotal lies by omission. So, to start with, I'll bet that you probably believe Columbus and other European settlers to simply have committed mass genocide against Native Americans, sorry Indigenous. But here's the truth. While there were many examples of brutal warfare between Europeans and Native Americans, neither side actually committed genocide; in fact there was never an outright policy of Indian extermination. The Native Americans were mostly wiped out through infectious diseases that the settlers had inadvertently brought with them. Of the estimated 250,000 natives in Hispaniola, Columbus' first stop in the Americas in 1492, new infectious diseases wiped out a staggering 95% of their population by 1517. As far as the genocide by violence, you can look at any historical account of even the most one-sided battles, and find that they were still just that, battles. Take Wounded Knee, although hundreds of years later, I only bring it up because I know that if I don't you will. It's become ubiquitous with the idea of Native American's genocide. After all there were 150-350 Aboriginals killed or wounded. That's terrible. But there were also 25 American soldiers killed and 39 wounded. That's not genocide, that's a one-sided beatdown with Old Glory wielding the hammer. And sometimes the massacres went the other direction. See the Apaches for reference or the Comanches or a dozen or so other tribes. So the natives often gave as good as they got - not exactly the way genocide usually tends to work. Here's another thing I bet you've been made to believe: that many Native Americans, sorry American Indians, sorry Idon'tknowwhattakeyourpick lived in harmony with the environment until Columbus arrived, and European settlers destroyed the land with their evil technology. Truth? Not only did the Natives brutally take out people, but they took out entire forests, and hunted species to extinction. Squatting Bear and his first nations buddies weren't hopping into kayaks to block whaling ships probably because they were too busy killing seals to waterproof their kayaks. You also probably believe that The Native American, sorry, two-spirited, first nations, something-or-other culture was a beautiful, pantheistic one of peace. The truth is... not so much. When Columbus arrived, the islands were inhabited by two main tribes. The Arawaks who were passive and friendly and the Caribs, who were vicious cannibals. The Arawaks actually lived in fear of the Caribs for, you guessed it the reasons being that they hunted them down to enslave them and eat them. Yes, eat them. Ironically, we get the name Caribbean Islands from those famous people eaters. The only way settlers were able to conquer this land was through the help of Native Americans who teamed up with them to settle the score with other tribes who were even bigger jerks than they were! That's not even to mention the populations in Central and South America famous for ritual human sacrifice. You think Cortes was able to command and conquer with only 500 or so Conquistadors? Of course not, it took 50,000 screaming angry allied Natives who'd had it up to here with being tortured, enslaved and forced to carry gold for the other, Native Aztecs. At some point they decided to roll the dice and go with the guys sporting funny beards and metal hats. None of this is to say that the early settlers were perfect, or that they didn't carry out their fair share of pretty scummy stuff. But to use America's mistakes as the brush with which to paint the entirety of its history, while completely ignoring the Indigenous lifestyle of barbarism and borderline evil is inaccurate at best, dishonest at worst. There were plenty of bloody, horrendous battles between the Europeans and the Indians. When a Neolithic tribe encounters a more technologically advanced people, the guys with the boom-boom sticks usually win. Columbus is not the issue here and never was. This whole indigenous people's day charade is about teaching your children to despise Western Civilization and anybody who dare defend it. But then again that could just be my Western civ privilege talking. Happy Columbus Day. I'm Steven Crowder for Prager University.
What's up guys this is will wit with PragerU today We're at Wake Forest University here in North Carolina, and we're asking students about Christopher Columbus and Columbus Day. Let's get started What are your thoughts on Christopher Columbus? Mixed feelings. I don't really know your school. Yeah he sucked he sucked he is a pretty terrible person He kicked some foreigners out of their homeland. There was a lot of Taking of indigenous lands. There's a lot of there's a lot of just general foolishness. Do you think he's a good guy? I don't know him personally. But uh He's probably okay. Do you know what year Columbus sailed? (unsure)1782 Close, what year did Christopher Columbus sail over? Hypothetically 1492 Hypothetically? Hypothetically could have been 1493. Could have been. What are the names of the three ships that he sailed over I have no idea What are the names of the three ships that Christopher Columbus sailed on? Uhhhh Santa Maria Uhhhh Pina and the Mayflower? No Nina is on your shirt Mayflower? Nope. Damn, is it nerdy that I have a shirt on with that helpful. I'm trying to help and educate thank you Nina, Santa Maria Pint...pinta. (To dog) Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah Oh, yeah, Christopher Columbus sailed over! Do you think we should change the name of the day? I think it just shouldn't be a day. Let's just not make it a day I don't even think there should be a day necessarily I think it's something relevant that we should celebrate to an extent just because It's pretty foundational in our history and just how we kind of got started Haha. Do you think we should change it to indigenous peoples day? I'm not even sure what that means. Most people don't what do you think? We should name it to? Kicking foreigners out of their territory day. Do you think that we should give the land back to the Native Americans? That's a big idea Should Americans give the land back to the Native Americans We're still working on acknowledging that we had American slavery for like four hundred years So I I would I would I would advise baby steps You're saying like what Christopher Columbus did was bad and we took the land from the Native Americans, right? So this is technically their land right? So should we give it back to them? Yeah, I think so You want to pack your bags we can leave right now. I mean, yeah, I got my backpack. I'm set Do you think we should give the land back to the Native Americans? Yeah, why not? We should leave. Yeah pack your suitcases. He and I are gonna leave (laughter)Go back to Europe oh my god no
I am an anti-feminist. Feminism is a mean-spirited, small-minded and oppressive philosophy that can poison relations between the sexes - relations which for most of us provide some of life's deepest pleasures and consolations. Feminism has attempted to bully us all into accepting an obvious lie: the lie that men and women have the same powers, talents, proclivities and desires and that consequently any discrepancy in their professional paths is due to bigotry and must be corrected by force of culture and law. By shoving that lie down our throats, feminism has made both men and women less happy and less free. Now, I'm going to have to speak in generalities and I understand there are all kinds of exceptions to what I'm about to say. But the generalities remain generally valid. Feminism denigrates masculinity in men by relentlessly calling us toxic for our flaws rather than appreciating our natural qualities of energy, risk-taking and leadership. But it also denigrates femininity in women, working to replace most women's commitment to relationship and child-rearing with male obsessions such as career status and strength. What's the result? Take a look at the quintessential feminist icon, Rosie the Riveter, flexing her muscle. The truth is: Any man of the same size and fitness can make a bigger, stronger, muscle than Rosie can. By herding women away from their feminine natures, feminism seeks to transform them from first rate women into second rate men. Now perhaps you'll protest: Isn't feminism simply the idea that women have the same human rights as men? No, it isn't. That philosophy is called classical liberalism, which holds that we are all equally endowed by God with the inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. But wait, doesn't the Declaration of Independence say that all MEN are created equal? Yes. Classical liberalism was an idea conceived by and largely for Christian white men. But like all ideas, good and bad, classical liberalism has evolved over time according to its internal logic, so it now includes all races and both sexes. Good job, Christian white men! Thanks for the great idea! As its excuse for the damage it does to our lives, feminism has developed the historical mythology that men have oppressed women and now must be suppressed in their turn to even things out. Let me propose a different narrative that has the advantage of possibly being true. Insofar as men and women are physical creations, their central purpose is the production of more human beings. Women are therefore fashioned in body and mind to make and nurture children, and men to protect and support those children during their relatively long maturation period. All societies shaped themselves around these necessities. They created structures that formalized gender roles and attempted to insure the paternity of children so that men would care for their own. In many societies, these structures became increasingly ritualistic and oppressive for women. But the opposite happened in the Christian West. Why? Take a look at your Bible, Proverbs 31. The Biblical ideal of a good woman is not only strong, kind and wise, she's also a creative and economic dynamo. Christianity sanctified motherhood in the person of Mary, and celebrated women's fortitude and virtue in the female saints. The church created a version of marriage intended to protect women, and designed the philosophy of chivalry, which instructed men to use their superior strength for women, not against them. Individuals can be incredibly abusive to one another, men and women both. But over time, Christendom tended to elevate, protect and ultimately include women as women in the great enterprise of western civilization. Now, the developments of modernity HAVE created special challenges for women. Industry removed clothing and food production from the home to the factory and thus deprived homemakers of their traditional businesses. Children lost their monetary value to parents by leaving home to fend for themselves. So, while motherhood and homemaking remain the most important SPIRITUAL activities of humankind, modernity has stripped those enterprises of their former economic power. But - in a western civilization dedicated to equal rights, these challenges come along with fresh opportunities. New technologies and effective birth control allow individual women to tailor gender roles to their personal liking or abandon them altogether. None of this is a reason to attack men. In fact, these new opportunities are largely the result of men's inventions and their ideas. And none of it requires women to abandon the femininity which is one of the graces of our world. It's just change and progress, that's all. With honest thought and good will, we can adapt over time without the angry, bitter and dishonest attacks on our human nature by feminists. I'm Andrew Klavan for Prager University.
The health of an economy can be measured using a variety of indicators. Common ones include the unemployment rate, monthly job creation figures, and GDP - or the total value of all goods and services produced in an economy over a given year. But a less frequently used, although very important, indicator is wage growth. While it may not be the first thing to come to mind when thinking about the economy on a larger scale, wage growth is directly linked to things like sales performance at stores and restaurants, fluctuations in the housing market, and can even increase the standard of living. And when it's your wages going upit becomes very important. Because as wages rise, Americans spend more money. But the question is, what causes wages to rise? Well, there are several things that influence wage growth. Number one. Employers simply have more profits so they are financially able to raise worker compensation. These extra funds could be the result of a jump in business performance - caused by a hike in sales or a public policy change - such as a reduction in the tax rate. Number two. The market for labor becomes more competitive. This situation can arise when the number of job openings surpasses the number of people looking for employment - a circumstance referred to as a tightening of the labor market. The lack of available workers forces businesses to compete over job candidates by outbidding each other with perks, like higher wages, better working conditions, more vacation time, and other benefits. Number three. Typically, wages rise with skill and experience. Whether the skill or knowledge is acquired from a traditional higher education institution, trade school, or simply from on-the-job experience, wage levels will fluctuate based on the demand for these respective attributes. The rule of thumb? More education and experience in a field with room for growth equals higher wages. Wage levels can change for a number of reasons, but one thing is for sure. When the economy is doing better and unemployment is lowwages will be on the rise.
What's up guys this is Will Wit from PragerU. Today we are at UCLA a beautiful campus here, talking to students about the minimum wage and whether it's a good idea or not. How high do you think the minimum wage should be? Um, well, definitely a lot higher than what it is right now. I mean, I'd probably just say the highest is maybe 20$, absolute highest. How high should the minimum wage in California be? Hm... That's a good question. Maybe like 25 dollars? I mean ah that's pretty high huh? Well I was thinking more like 35. I would agree with that. What about 45? Shhhh..... Where do you draw the line? That's the question. 4...I'd go for 45 too. I'd agree with that. I mean I come from New Jersey, and the minimum wage is like 8.37$, then waitress minimum wage was like 2.37$ So it's a lot lower, and it sucks so I definitely think higher minimum wage is good. How high should the minimum wage be? Man I think man these people work hard in the United States, I think they need get, I think... Everything $15 dollars and up cause they working at MacDonalds, Fridays, anything, make $15 dollars up, know what I'm saying, They paying taxes anyway. What about $20 dollars and up? Know what? I think so. PFFFT. Twenty five? Know what? I said 25 because these people get up every day...taking chances too. What number would you say to raise the minimum wage to? I think like maybe $17, $17.25 something like that. What about $30? $30, $30 sounds good you know. I mean I worked at a job, when they raised it to $11, at my old job, they actually cutted everyone's hours... Then why are you saying we should raise the minimum wage then, that doesn't sound like a good idea at all! I dunno... Paying people a lot more for wages, they would have to hire people to keep their profits the same. I don't think so.....I uh, that's that's that's that's...... Cause then they'd be paying people a lot more, and not making as much money. That's that's that's just nothing but excuses. If I were to say that, the data shows that raising the minimum wage actually raises prices and lowers um, makes the economy worse, would that change your mind at all? Of course. Definitely. Did you see what happened in Seattle? Hmmm no... They raised the minimum wage there to $15 an hour, and it didn't go so well. Do you think that everyone should get paid the same even if like, they're not good workers? Like you and I, you are really good at your job and I am not, and we get paid the same minimum wage, is that fair? Well, I think...I think like on a moral level, it isn't fair for that person to be slacking off. But I think that there should still be the same base for everybody because that's just what the job is. Do you think that if you're a really good employee and I suck as an employee we should both get the same minimum wage, both working the same job but you work it well and I don't, is that fair? Nooo, I mean I guess that's not fair, but yeah...I mean, I think that also, if I'm working better then I should be able to get a better position at what I'm doing, but yeah, if we're doing the same shit and you're getting paid the same amount, then that seems kind of....silly, especially for the business because they're wasting their own resources on you, who is just losing them money... That's what a minimum wage is. Yeah, okay. Ha ha ha.
Imagine you live in a small country with more than a hundred thousand missiles pointed at it. And imagine the leaders who control those weapons had one stated purpose: to destroy you - to literally wipe your country off the map. What would do you? Strike first and try to destroy all the weapons? Set up an anti-missile defense system? Or would you ignore the problem and hope it goes away? You can now stop imagining, because these are real-life questions that one country in the world has to ask itself every day. That country is Israel. And the leaders who control these missiles (and the number I gave is a low-ball estimate) belong to an organization known as Hezbollah - Arabic for Party of God. Moreover, they're not rogue terrorists. They actually run a country - Lebanon. You should know something about them. Hezbollah first burst onto the international scene in 1983, when they simultaneously bombed the United States Marine barracks and French paratrooper base in Beirut. 241 Americans - the largest loss of American military personnel in a single incident since World War II - and 58 Frenchmen were killed in the attacks. But this was only the beginning. More bombings followed, killing 24 people at the U.S. Embassy annex in Beirut in 1984; killing 85 at the Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires in 1994; and killing 19 at a housing complex for American oil executives in Saudi Arabia in 1996. In 1985, Hezbollah terrorists highjacked TWA Flight 847, during which they beat passengers, separated those with Jewish-sounding names, and murdered U.S. Navy diver Robert Stethem. Hezbollah also supplied roadside bombs and helped organize groups who committed terror attacks against American forces during the Iraq War. They routinely assassinated political rivals, most notably the former prime minister of Lebanon, Rafic Hariri in 2005. They provoked numerous border clashes with Israel, which escalated into a war in 2006 during which Hezbollah launched thousands of rockets at civilian targets. Today, Hezbollah is a military force, a political party, a terrorist group and a transnational criminal organization engaged in drug trafficking, money laundering, and arms smuggling. But the most important thing to remember about Hezbollah is not Hezbollah; it's Iran. Hezbollah is an extension of Iran and it operates under its command. Don't take my word for it. Take it from the man who has been running Hezbollah for the last twenty-five years and is now the most powerful man in Lebanon, Hassan Nasrallah. Here's what he said in 2016: We are open about the fact that Hezbollah's budget, its income, its expenses, everything it eats and drinks, its weapons and rockets, come from the Islamic Republic of Iran. That's pretty much always been the case. Indeed, Hezbollah is the demon child of the Iranian Revolution. Its founders were Iranian revolutionaries who operated out of Lebanon in the 1970s. After overthrowing the Shah of Iran in 1979, they set up Hezbollah in Lebanon. This is why in the early days, Hezbollah referred to itself as the Islamic revolution in Lebanon. That definition still fits. In the 1990s, Hezbollah added politics to its resume. This led many scholars to claim that the group had abandoned its terrorist past and its subservience to Iran. If only. In truth, throughout the decade, Hezbollah extended its murderous influence into Africa and Latin America, and even into North America. Cocaine trafficking (they got very cozy with Colombian and Mexican drug cartels), phony charity operations, and a wide variety of other criminal activities brought in more cash with which to finance their political and terror operations. Today, Hezbollah dominates Lebanon. It directs the nation's major domestic and foreign policy decisions, including war. It has gained control of the Lebanese parliament as well as its military and security agencies. It has also effectively turned Lebanon into an Iranian missile base. That's where the more than 100,000 rockets come in. Iran is working to surround Israel with missiles capable of hitting anywhere inside the country, all while pressing ahead toward developing nuclear weapons. As Hezbollah and Iran entrench themselves in Syria, where they're intent on activating a new front against Israel, the likelihood they will trigger another war - more devastating than the one in 2006 - is growing. In addition, Iran has used Hezbollah to further its ambitions to become the dominant power in the region. Hezbollah operatives are deeply involved in the conflicts in Iraq and Yemen. Since 9-11, the world has come to associate terrorist threats mainly with non-state actors like Al-Qaeda and ISIS. But unlike all these others, Hezbollah is a state enterprise. As such, the threat Hezbollah poses to the West, to Arab countries, and to Israel's existence is different - and far more dangerous. How do we stop Hezbollah? The key: Stop Iran. I'm Tony Badran, research fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, for Prager University.
Ideas have consequences. Sometimes good. Sometimes bad. And sometimes catastrophic like the ideas of Karl Marx. Born in Trier, Germany in 1818, Marx didn't invent communism. But it was on his ideas that Lenin and Stalin built the Soviet Union, Mao built communist China, and innumerable other tyrants, from the Kims in North Korea to the Castros in Cuba, built their communist regimes. Ultimately, those regimes and movements calling themselves Marxist murdered about 100 million people and enslaved more than a billion. Marx believed that workers, specifically those who did manual labor, were exploited by capitalists the people who owned, as Marx put it, the means of production (specifically, factories) but who did very little physical labor themselves. Only a workers' revolution, Marx wrote in Das Kapital, could correct this injustice. What would that revolution look like? Marx and his collaborator, Friedrich Engels, spelled it out point-by-point in The Communist Manifesto. It included the abolition of property and inheritance and the centralization of credit, communication, and transport in the hands of the state. And a lot more along the same lines. In other words, the state owns and controls pretty much everything. This notion was widely discussed and debated in European intellectual circles during Marx's lifetime, but nothing much came of it until Vladimir Lenin took power in Russia in 1917. This changed everything. Despite its repeated economic failures, Lenin's Russia, which became known as the Soviet Union, became the model for dictators around the world. Wherever Marx's ideas were practiced, life got worse not by a little; but by a lot. There is not a single exception to this rule. Not the Soviet Union, not Eastern Europe, not China, not North Korea, not Vietnam, not Cuba, not Venezuela, not Bolivia, not Zimbabwe. Wherever Marxism goes, economic collapse, terror and famine follow. So, if cataclysmic failure meaning terrible human suffering is the inevitable legacy of Marxism, why do so many people and now, especially, young people defend it? The most common answer Marxism's advocates offer is that they whoever they are: Lenin, Stalin, Chavez never really practiced Marxism. They all somehow got it wrong. Marxism, we are told, is, at its essence, about sharing what we have: From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs, as Marx put it. Maybe that sounds good to you. But what does it mean? Who determines ability? Who determines need? The answer is The State. The ruling elite. Under Marxism, that's who has all of the power. That's why the truth is this: Marxist dictators like Lenin, Mao and Pol Pot really did get Marxism right. They wanted absolute power, and Marxism gave them the way to get it. Karl Marx never had to face the consequences of his theories. He lived most of his adult life breathing the free air of London, England, living off the generosity of his collaborator and patron Engels, who, as it happens, inherited his money from his wealthy merchant father. Marx spent his days in the Reading Room of the British Museum, researching and writing. Although he was obsessed with the term scientific, he was never able to marshal data to prove his theories. There's a good reason for this: There was no data to prove his theories. For all of his time in the library, Marx couldn't find any evidence to suggest that capitalism the free exchange of goods and services through privately-owned business was a passing phase. Throughout the industrial age, working conditions constantly improved and wealth expanded. Marx had to rely on outdated reports to make his case. And even then, he had to manipulate the data to get it to conform to his predetermined theories. But Marx really had no interest in proving his theories. He knew that they could be put into practice only by brute force. He said so himself. Of course, in the beginning, [communism] cannot be effected except by means of despotic inroads, he wrote. His ends could be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions. All existing social conditions. That's religion, family, personal possessions, freedom, and democracy. They all had to go in order to achieve Marx's vision of an earthly paradise. But since few people give up their liberties and property voluntarily, creating a Marxist state has always required guns, prisons, and summary executions. Marx's many disciples, from Lenin on, never considered this a problem. Some, like revolutionary poster-boy Che Guevara, considered it a bonus. I don't need proof to execute a man, Che is said to have boasted. I only need proof that it's necessary to execute him! If you're still a fan of Marxism after all the death, suffering, and destruction it's caused, that's your right. But own up to it. Don't hide behind the it's never really been tried line. It has. I'm Paul Kengor, Professor of Political Science at Grove City College, for Prager University.
Net Neutrality means that the government will - one day - control the internet. Wait a second! I can you hear you saying. That sounds bad. But almost everyone you know says that Net Neutrality is good. Doesn't neutral mean that no one is picking winners and losers, that everyone is equal? Maybe according to the dictionary, but not according to the people behind the Net Neutrality movement. For them, "neutral" means the government regulates the internet like a public utility - and that means bureaucrats making key decisions about how the internet is run. And that's exactly what happened in 2015. The Federal Communications Commission - or FCC - under the Obama Administration, came up with Net Neutrality rules and regulations and imposed them on consumers. No open hearings - they just did it. Here's what they said: Internet Service Providers, or ISPs - AT&T, Verizon, and other companies that lay the cable that goes to your house - are basically monopolies like your typical utility company. To prevent abuse of this position, Net Neutrality rules prohibited them from charging websites different prices no matter how much or how little bandwidth they use. But this is exactly the opposite of what utilities are allowed to do. Electricity providers, for instance, are allowed to create pricing tiers - the more you use, the higher the price goes. If you use significantly more power than your neighbor, you pay more for the privilege. Net Neutrality forces ISPs to charge all users the same price no matter how much data they send through the internet. It's a bad idea. Here's why: The internet consists of a physical infrastructure of cable and phone lines that carry the data - we call it "bandwidth." But of course, there's a limit to how much data it can carry. In 2014, just two companies, Netflix and Google (which owns YouTube), consumed more than 52% of the total bandwidth of the entire internet. All those data-heavy movies and videos clog up the pipe. To combat this massive resource drain, the ISPs floated the idea of creating fast lanes: bandwidth that would be dedicated to the big users in exchange for higher usage rates. You use more, you pay more. Believe me, I'm no fan of ISPs, but shouldn't they be allowed to charge companies more if they use more bandwidth? Furthermore, if companies like Google and Netflix have to pay higher prices for more bandwidth, they'll be motivated to find new ways to push more data through the pipe. And creative startups would no doubt see a great business opportunity to do the same thing. End result: More efficient, faster internet. Consumers win. The big bandwidth users didn't see it this way. Instead, they lobbied for the new rules to prevent the ISPs from charging them differently than anyone else. Naturally, they want to pay as little as they can for bandwidth. So, they mounted a big PR campaign to convince the public to back the new regulations. And it worked. How could it fail with a name like Net Neutrality? They argued that without regulations, a very small number of companies - the ISPs - would wield enormous censorship powers. Our free speech would be in jeopardy. Ironically, the only companies that have been censoring content are many of the same ones that want Net Neutrality: Google, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter - the big users. Companies that, coincidentally, had a very close relationship with the Obama Administration. YouTube's parent, Google, had more than 427 meetings at the Obama White House during his presidency - a rate of more than one per week. All those visits apparently paid off. Following decades of exploding internet growth, the government suddenly interjected itself with a bunch of new rules to stop a non-existent threat. Those rules were rescinded in 2018 when the FCC rolled back the Obama-era regulation under the principle that innovation would be much more likely to happen if the government got out of the way. In other words, the FCC returned the internet to its pre-2015, pre-Net Neutrality state. Sounds like common sense, right? Just leave the internet alone and let tech do its thing. Unfair or bad-faith practices by ISPs, should they occur, can be addressed by existing anti-trust laws - as they always have. But all that followed the rollback decision was hysteria. Taking away #NetNeutrality is the Authoritarian dream, actor Mark Ruffalo intoned. Authoritarianism used to be when the government forced its will on the people. Now, according to Hollywood activists, it's when it doesn't! Or, let's put it another way: if you want the current - or any other - administration to control the internet, you're for Net Neutrality. If you want the internet to remain free of government meddling, you're against it. I'm Jon Gabriel of Ricochet.com for Prager University.
What's the difference between a liberal and a leftist? This question stumps most people because they think liberal and left are essentially the same. But they're not. In fact, liberalism and leftism have almost nothing in common. But the left has appropriated the word liberal so effectively almost everyone - liberals, leftists and conservatives - thinks they are synonymous. But they're not. Let me offer you six examples: 1. Race: This is probably the most obvious difference between liberal and left. The liberal position on race has always been a) the color of a person's skin is insignificant and b) those who believe race is significant are racists. Meanwhile, the left believes the very opposite. To the left, it's the liberal attitude toward race - it's unimportant - that is racist. That's why the University of California officially lists the statement, There is only one race, the human race as racist. And liberals have always been passionately committed to racial integration, while the left is increasingly committed to racial segregation - such as all-black dormitories and separate black graduations at universities. 2. Capitalism: Liberals have always been pro-capitalism, because liberals are committed to free enterprise and because they know capitalism is the only way to lift great numbers of people out of poverty. It is true that liberals want government to play a bigger role in the economy than conservatives do, but liberals never opposed capitalism, and they were never for socialism. Opposition to capitalism and advocacy of socialism are left-wing values. 3. Nationalism: Liberals believe in the nation-state, whether that nation is the United States, Brazil, or France. But because the left divides the world by class rather than by national identity, the left has always opposed nationalism. So, while liberals have always wanted to protect American sovereignty and borders, the left is for open borders. When the writers of Superman were liberals, Superman was a proud American whose very motto was Truth, justice, and the American way. But that all changed a few years ago, when left-wing writers took over the comic strip and had Superman renounce his American citizenship to be a citizen of the world. The left has contempt for nationalism, seeing it as the road to fascism. Better that we should all be citizens of the world in a world without borders. 4. View of America: Liberals have always venerated America. Watch American films from the 1930s through the 1950s and you will be watching overtly patriotic, America-celebrating films - virtually all produced, directed and acted by liberals. Liberals were quite aware of America's imperfections, but they agreed with Abraham Lincoln that America is the last, best hope of earth. The left, however, believes the left is the last, best hope of earth and regards America as racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, violent, and imperialistic. 5. Free speech: No one has been more committed than American liberals to the famous statement, I wholly disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it. But the left is leading the first widespread suppression of free speech in modern American history - from the universities to the tech companies that govern the internet to almost every other institution and place of work. Of course, the left claims to only oppose hate speech. But putting aside the fact that the left deems hate speech anything it differs with, protecting what you or I might consider hate speech is the entire point of free speech. 6. Western civilization: Liberals have always championed and sought to protect Western civilization. Liberals celebrate the West's unique moral, philosophical, artistic, musical and literary achievements, and have taught them at virtually every university. The most revered liberal in American political history, President Franklin Roosevelt, often cited the need to protect Western civilization and even Christian civilization. Yet, when President Donald Trump spoke of the need to protect Western civilization in a speech in Warsaw, the left-wing media, also known as the mainstream media, denounced him. They argued that Western civilization is no better than any other and that Western civilization is just a euphemism for white supremacy. So, then, if liberalism and leftism are so different, why don't liberals oppose the left? In a nutshell, because they have been taught all their lives to fear the right. But as one of the best-known liberals in America, Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz, said, As a liberal, as an American, and as a Jew, I far more fear the left than the right. Dear liberals: Conservatives are not your enemy. The left is. I'm Dennis Prager.
Who is Dennis Prager? And why do so many people love him? As the producer of the Dennis Prager radio show and the co-founder and executive director of Prager University, I have given this second question a lot of thought. Here is my answer: Luck. Unadulterated good fortune. Orit could be this: Through his radio show, his writing, and now PragerU, he changes the way you live - for the better. He makes you a better a person - a better father, a better son, a better mother, a better daughter. Name another public figure who does that. So, let's return to the first question: Who is Dennis Prager? Born in Brooklyn, New York on August 2, 1948, he is the second son of Max and Hilda Prager, two worldly Orthodox Jews. Max, a World War II vet, was an accountant, and Hilda, a nursing home administrator. Both were movie-star handsome. In fact, if the stars had been differently aligned, Hilda could have been an actress - she had the looks and the personality. Speaking of stars, Dennis's sign is Leo. Which makes you want to believe in astrology. It's one of those little ironies that Dennis barely spoke a word until he was almost four. But, of course, once he started, he never stopped. He didn't like school. To keep himself from being bored, he learned to spell - backwards. He was the class clown. He was sent to the principal's office so often the secretary named a chair after him. He did the minimum amount of homework. In his case, this meant zero. In a class of 110 high school students, he graduated number 82. But he was always scrupulously ethical and honest. Cheating was rampant at the religious school he attended. He mounted a campaign against it. You'd think everybody would hate him for that. But they didn't. He was too charming, too charismatic, too principled. No one could - no one can - remain mad at Dennis for long. When he was a sophomore, Max and Hilda made a bold decision. The traditional parenting model clearly wasn't working. So, they offered their second son a deal: he had to be at the Shabbat dinner table every Friday, but otherwise, he was on his own. They gave him a modest allowance and set him loose. Manhattan became his playground. Classical music became his passion. That, and all things Russian. He studied them both on his own. That same sophomore year, he met his lifelong friend, Joseph Telushkin. Their endless religious discussions eventually became a book, The Nine Questions People Ask about Judaism, still the standard text for those who want to learn the basic principles of the faith. Remarkably, every book Dennis has written is still in print and still selling. At the time, though, the future didn't look promising. Dennis's grades were so bad that his only college option was Brooklyn College - simply because Brooklyn would take anybody. But it turned out to be the perfect choice. He won an essay contest. The prize was a scholarship to study abroad at Leeds College in England. While there, he was contacted by the Israeli government. They needed someone to smuggle Jewish artifacts into the Soviet Union and smuggle out names of those Jews who wanted to emigrate to Israel. It wasn't John le Carr-dangerous, but real risk was involved. Dennis accepted the mission. When he returned to the US, he was asked by various Jewish groups to talk about his experience. He's been traveling - 131 countries and counting - and lecturing ever since. Now living in Los Angeles, his public speaking and deep involvement in Jewish life led to an offer to host a Sunday-night radio show called Religion on the Line. Radio was the perfect medium for a non-stop thinker, non-stop talker with a theory on everything from baseball to Beethoven. That he had a perfect radio voice makes the whole thing seem part of a divine plan. The Sunday-night show quickly became a Saturday-and-Sunday-night show, which soon became a Monday-thru-Friday show. Among Dennis's fans was Hollywood writer/director David Zucker, of Airplane! and Naked Gun fame. He had the idea for a sketch comedy about Dennis's ideas about goodness. But he needed someone to work with Dennis on the script. I turned out be that someone. Working on what became For Goodness Sake changed my life. Ten years later, I began producing Dennis's now nationally-syndicated radio show. Dennis already had a large audience, but the goal has always been to make it larger. And younger. Because that's the future. It was from this thought that Prager University was born. An internet phenomenon, it has vastly expanded Dennis's reach - both geographically and demographically. Over 300 videos from over 100 presenters and over 1 billion views later, with an audience that is mostly under 35, PragerU has changed a lot of minds. But there are many we still need to get to. Enough to change the country - maybe the world - for the better. One person at a time. Five minutes at a time. Think about it: At age 70, Dennis's career is on the ascendant! Pure luck. I'm Allen Estrin for Prager University.
Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free These poetic lines, engraved on a bronze plaque beneath the Statue of Liberty, speak to who we are: a nation of immigrants. Until now . . . As Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer lamented, Tears are running down the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty. We've turned our backs on those huddled masses. Closed our borders. Separated families. Hardened our hearts. Or so you would think if you only read the headlines or watch TV news. Just one problem: It's not true. The United States still maintains the most generous immigration policies in the world. Generous to a fault...because the overwhelming numbers have stymied our ability to assimilate the huddled masses. 50 million residents of America are foreign-born. In fact, today the United States has more immigrants as a percentage of its total population than at any time since 1890. That's why, to give one illustration, 176 different languages are spoken among students in the New York City school system. How did we get here? For starters, America grants permanent residence to a million people every single year. And that's just the tip of the iceberg because of something you've probably heard referred to as chain migration. Chain migration allows immigrants to sponsor not only their immediate family - parents, spouses and children under age 21, but much of their extended family once they gain citizenship: unmarried adult children and any children they might have, married adult children and their children, and brothers and sisters and their children. Princeton University researchers, using the most recently available data, found that immigrants sponsored an average of 3.45 additional relatives each. So, the one million immigrants granted permanent residence each year potentially adds, over time, another three and a half million. In addition, an estimated 100,000 refugees and asylum-seekers - people who claim to be fleeing political or personal strife abroad - enter the country annually. From 2008 to 2017, the U.S. gave green cards to well over a million people for humanitarian reasons, allowing them to live and work here permanently. After five years, they can apply for full citizenship. We're not done yet. In that same time frame, nearly half a million more people came to America through the diversity visa lottery - a program designed to admit more people from underrepresented countries into the U.S. Diversity visa applicants don't need a high school education, job skills - or pretty much anything. And, thanks again to chain migration, spouses and unmarried children under 21 of visa lottery winners also get to come to America. This non-stop flow of new legal immigrants - based on family ties instead of skills, abilities, and allegiance to American values - has, of course, been supplemented by millions who enter the country illegally and stay illegally. Dominant media outlets use the euphemism undocumented, but the official U.S. government term used in federal statutes is illegal alien: an unlawful entrant who came without permission and stays in open defiance of our laws. The number of illegal aliens in the country is usually given as 11 million, but have you noticed that number never seems to change? Common sense suggests it's higher - much higher. And though illegal aliens themselves don't qualify for welfare, they receive free health care in our clinics and hospitals, and through their American-born children they can expect to receive all manner of benefits - cash aid, food stamps, and housing vouchers. Their children are entitled to a free education in public schools. Building a high-tech border barrier would certainly help stem this flow. Ending chain migration is another obvious remedy. E-Verify, the national database that allows employers to check workers' immigration status, is also essential. So is a fully-functioning entry-exit system to track visa overstayers. But all solutions will ultimately fail unless we get control of the numbers and enforce our laws consistently. It's Sovereignty 101: This is our home and we have not only the right, but the responsibility, to determine who comes in, how many come in, and what qualities and qualifications they bring. The truth is, we let in millions. And, of course, millions more want to come. Who can blame them? But it's simply not possible or desirable to let in everyone. And it's not hateful to say so. It's not hateful to protect our borders. It's not hateful to protect our citizens. It's not hateful to protect our values. Lady Liberty may be shedding tears - not because we've stopped welcoming immigrants, but because our ill-conceived immigration policies are threatening the American Dream. I'm Michelle Malkin, CRTV host and author of Invasion and Sold Out, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is will whit from Prager you today? We're in beautiful Santa Barbara and we're gonna be asking people about plastic straws and should they be banned sure plastic straws be banned? Should we ban plastic straws? Absolutely. Do you think we should ban plastic straws? I do why do you think that because They're bad for the environment and they cause a lot of pollution they kill the baby sea turtles What else should we ban to help save the environment Oh my goodness come up with a better idea for like plastic lids on to-go cups and Paper lids paper lids would be great. What do you guys do to help eliminate your carbon footprint? recycle Wow Heartwarming what else could we do to help fix the environment? I think You know what? I've been like seeing in different places Like people have just been like planning fruit trees in public streets And that's like dope in the ocean if you cut open a fish I saw like an article about this and like all that's inside them are plastic straws Should businesses be able to choose whether or not to use plastic or should the government. Just tell them they can't use it I think the government should tell them we should stop using plastic. Think about it Like people could eat fruit for free like state like planted by the state trees fined by the state They could eat fruit homeless people could eat fruit and it's giving oxygen into the air. So the government pays for the fruit trees Sure. Why not? And what do you think's worse? Plastic straws here or people coming into this country. Illegally. Oh my god plastic straws. Okay, what do you think is the best alternative to plastic straws um well I the place that I work we started using paper straws and a lot of people have an issue with paper straws because they're flimsy Soggy these soggy what do you think is a bigger priority to to stop plastic straws or illegal immigration? a bigger priority I would say straws
From the end of World War II, the United States and its Western European allies were involved in a nearly half-century long, titanic struggle with the Soviet Union known as the Cold War. It was cold only in the sense that the Russians and the Americans never came to direct blows. But it was certainly not cold for the Cubans, Koreans, Vietnamese, and others who got caught up in the Communists' relentless drive to destabilize the free, democratic, capitalist world. There were, to be sure, many morally complex moments during this long struggle, but the Cold War was, at its core, as clear a conflict of good versus evil as World War II had been. Just like that war, the Cold War was a death match between the forces representing freedom and the forces representing totalitarianism. Because hundreds of thousands - perhaps millions - died in it, the Cold War can, with good reason, be described as 'the Third World War.' The instigator of this war was Josef Stalin, the mass-murdering dictator of Russia and of the many non-Russian peoples he had incorporated into what was known as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, or Soviet Union for short. Stalin knew that his Soviet armed forces could not take on the might of the free West. Instead, he decided to wage this fight through the use of proxies, and by a massive use of disinformation and misinformation. His initial prey was Eastern Europe: the Baltic States - Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia - as well as Poland, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Czechoslovakia. Stalin had troops in all these countries at the end of the war. Despite what he promised American President Franklin Roosevelt at the Yalta Conference, the Soviet leader had no intention of removing them. And gaining control over their governments proved to be quite easy. In March 1946, Winston Churchill famously declared that From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, an iron curtain has descended across the continent. When Stalin threatened both Greece and Turkey, President Harry Truman finally had enough. The so-called Truman Doctrine was born. The United States and its allies would not permit any further expansion of the communist empire. The Cold War was on. For the next five decades, and across four continents - Europe, Africa, Asia, and South America - the US and the Soviet Union battled for influence - sometimes overtly, like in Korea and Vietnam; and sometimes covertly, through their various spy agencies. But the moral lines of this battle never changed: the freedom of the West versus the communist tyranny of the Soviet East. There are, nonetheless, as there were even at the time, those who argue that the Cold War was an over-reaction by the West: that the ambitions and strength of the Soviet bloc were greatly exaggerated; and that America, with its massive defense build-up, was just as responsible for the Cold War as was the Soviet Union. But this simply isn't true - as an immense amount of archival evidence from Russia, not available until after the Cold War ended, now proves. Nikita Khrushchev, Stalin's successor, stated Soviet intentions plainly in 1956: We will bury you! he told the West. Nor would any amount of negotiation - "dtente, as it was called then - have led to a just conclusion of the war. The American diplomat George Kennan rightly warned that, short of becoming a Communist country, there was nothing the United States could do to gain the Kremlin's trust. The Soviets could not be appeased; only contained. But even containment was an inadequate strategy. Yes, the Soviet Union could not have beaten the US in a head-to-head confrontation, but it didn't have to. Victory in the Cold War would have allowed it - through intimidation and subversion - to dominate the globe, making Communism, rather than democracy and capitalism, the preeminent ideology. There were many times during the five decades of the war that it seemed like this would be the case. But thanks primarily to the strong leadership shown by Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, and Pope John Paul II, the Cold War ended not with a bang, but a whimper. The Soviet Union was, at the close of the 1980s, to use historian Paul Johnson's description, a bewildered giant - economically bereft, militarily exhausted, no longer able or willing to enforce its will. Communism had failed in every possible way - economically, politically, morally. It had tried to create a Utopia on earth and instead created hell for all of the nations that came under its sway. Yes, the forces of liberty eventually won the Cold War. But this triumph offers little consolation to millions who died or suffered needlessly, through no fault of their own, for a never-viable and now badly discredited cause. I'm Andrew Roberts for Prager University.
Rape, murder, war. They all have one thing in common. Men. Aggression, violence, ambition unchecked by conscience -- all the stuff of toxic masculinity, right? And, the solution is obvious: make men less toxic. Make men less masculine. Make men more like women. But I'm here to tell you that this way of thinking is not only wrong, it's dangerous. Here's why: When you try to make men more like women, you don't get less toxic masculinity, you get more. Why? Because bad men don't become good when they stop being men; they become good when they stop being bad. Aggression, violence, and unbridled ambition can't be eliminated from the male psyche, they can only be harnessed. And when they are harnessed, they are tools for good, not for harm. The same masculine traits that bring destruction also defeat tyranny. The traits that foster greed also build economies. The traits that drive men to take foolish risks also drive men to take heroic risks. The answer to toxic masculinity isn't less masculinity; it's better masculinity. And we know what that looks like. It's a young man opening the door for a girl on their first date. It's a father working long hours to provide for his family. It's a soldier risking his life to defend his country. The growing problem in today's society isn't that men are too masculine, it's that they're not masculine enough. When men embrace their masculinity in a way that is healthy and productive, they are leaders, warriors and heroes. When they deny their masculinity, they run away from responsibilities, leaving destruction and despair in their wake. The consequences can be seen everywhere: One in four fathers now lives apart from his children. And children who grow up without a dad are generally more depressed than their peers who have a mother and a father. They are at far greater risk for incarceration, teen pregnancy and poverty. Seventy-one percent of high school dropouts are fatherless. Of all the rocks upon which we build our lives ... family is the most important. And we are called to recognize and honor how critical every father is to that foundation. That was said by then Senator Barack Obama in 2008. If we are honest with ourselves, he went on we'll admit that ... too many fathers are... missing from too many lives and too many homes. As much as we try to deny the need for real, masculine strength in society, there's no denying its necessity. Healthy families and strong communities depend on the leadership and bravery of good men. Yet, the current trend is to feminize young men in the hopes of achieving some utopian notion of equality and peace. And it starts at the earliest ages. In the school classroom boys are invariably the problem. On the playground aggressive games like dodgeball have long been banished. We tell young men that their intrinsic desire to compete is wrong. Everybody gets a trophy. Don't run up the score. This anti-male tilt continues on through higher education and into the workplace. It has created millions of tentative men, unhappy women, and confused boys and girls. Here's a secret that everyone woman knows: women want real men: men they can count on and, yes, look up to. No amount of feminist theory will change that. I don't know any woman, at any age, who is attracted to a passive man who looks to her to be his provider, protector and leader. Every woman I know wants a strong, responsible man. That's not a consequence of a social construct or cultural pressure - it's innate. The devaluation of masculinity won't end well because feminine, passive men don't stop evil. Passive men don't defend, protect or provide. Passive men don't lead. Passive men don't do the things we have always needed men to do for society to thrive. In his book The Abolition of Man, English social philosopher C.S. Lewis writes about this problem. He describes the tension between cerebral man and visceral man. By his intellect, Lewis explains, man is mere spirit and by his appetite mere animal. We need both. Take away one, and you're left with a man who's either weak or wicked. And in a world of wickedness, weak men are nothing more than enablers of wicked men. Rape, murder, war. They all have two things in common: Bad men who do the raping, murdering, and warring; and weak men who won't stop them. We need good men who will. It's not masculinity that's toxic. It's the lack of it. I'm Allie Stuckey for Prager University.
Do you think that men and women are different Planet Fitness doesn't think so. They want your moms, your daughters, your grandma to change and use the restroom with men like me What's up guys this is Will Witt with Prager U and Planet Fitness' politically correct agenda is out of control. Planet Fitness claims to be a judgment-free zone, that is unless you're a woman who doesn't want to change in front of a man. Recently, a woman Complained to Planet Fitness for having to share a locker room with a transgender man, and instead of taking what the woman said seriously Planet Fitness banned her. And this man, yes it is a man, has been complained about before for exposing himself to a woman in the locker room. We should have compassion for the people who don't identify with the gender that they are but that doesn't mean that we have to get rid of a space that women need to feel comfortable in for a small minority. If you were a woman would you want someone like me changing in the locker room with you? Okay bad example, but you know what I mean, but I mean seriously: Would you want to have your daughter changing in a dressing room with a full-grown man? I know I wouldn't and I mean where do these people get off? And where do we draw the line? I say we draw the line between men and women. Guys, I hope you enjoyed this video, if you did Comment down below and let us know what you think and share this video with your friends This is Will Witt with Prager U. See you next time
What's up guys. This is Will Wit with PragerU today. We're back on Hollywood Boulevard and we're going to be asking people: Do the rich really pay their fair share? Do you think that the rich pay their fair share? No. Why do you say that? Cuz there's so many homeless people out on the street. Do you think that the rich pay their fair share? No. Do you think that the rich pay their fair share? Oh I'm not too sure, but I've heard that they don't. Yeah. Why have you heard that? I don't know. I've just heard it. Why do you think they don't pay their fair share. What they pay in taxes it's nothing compared to what we pay in taxes. That's kind of a loaded question I would say because when you're saying the rich, who are we talking about? We're talking about the Illuminati the Rothschilds Do you think that the rich pay their fair share? No, definitely not. How much money do you think you have to make to be in the top 1%? Oh, A lot. How much do you money? Do you have to make per year to be in the top 1%. I don't know. Just about $500,000 or more household income. Its actually not too bad. How much money do you make to be in the top 10% of earners in America. Do you guys know? I'm not too sure. You've guess what is the top 10% of income? What do they make? It has to be over. Yeah, there has been millions. Would you consider? $150,000 a household income middle-class. Yes. That's actually the top 10% of earners Really how much percent of taxes do you think those people pay? I'd say maybe like 15 I would say 10. Probably less than 5% Actually pay 75% of all taxes in this country are done by the top 10%. That's people making 150,000 and above. The more you make, the more they'll take. Oh, yeah. We have a pretty progressive tax system That isn't really fair to people who make more money. Wouldn't you say? Oh, yes, I would agree with that No the rich pay too much. Oh, oh, well, I don't know about that I mean if they do, well, that should be changed. Actually if they paid their fair share they'd actually be paying less What's the incentive to earn more? why would you want to earn more if you're gonna have to pay that much in taxes. Taxation is theft. That's what I say Automatic subtitle improvement: euskaragara.net
One of the most misunderstood clauses in the United States Constitution is found in Article 1, Section 2: Representatives shall be apportioned among the States by adding to the whole Number of free Persons... three fifths of all other Persons. Known as the three-fifths compromise, it raises an obvious question: How could the Founding Fathers who endorsed the idea that all men are created equal also endorse the idea that some men aren't? In 2013, James Wagner, President of Emory University, answered the question this way: the three-fifths compromise was an example of difficult, but necessary, political bargaining. Without it, Wagner argued, the northern and southern states would never have agreed to form a single union. No three-fifths compromise; no United States of America. Many people, including 31 members of his own faculty, vehemently disagreed. Wagner, the faculty members suggested, was excusing the inexcusable. They signed an open letter stating that the three fifths compromise was an insult to the descendants of slaves, and an example of racial denigration. So, who's right? Let's look at the text again. Representatives shall be apportioned among the States by adding to the whole Number of free Persons... three fifths of all other Persons. Note that the Constitution does not say that a slave is not a person; it explicitly says that they are persons. And it also does not say that a slave is three-fifths of a person, as many today mistakenly believe. The three-fifths description had nothing to do with the human worth of an individual slave, but everything to do with how many representatives each state would have in the U.S. Congress. For that purpose, states could only claim three-fifths of their slave population. The three-fifths compromise was devised by those who opposed slavery, not by those who were for slavery. Or, to put it another way, it wasn't the racists of the South who wanted to count slave populations less than white populations it was the abolitionists of the North. The framers of the Constitution were deeply divided on the issue of slavery. The free states of the North wanted to abolish it. The slave states of the South wanted to expand it. You might say that the southern slave states wanted to have it both ways: They wanted to count their slaves for the purpose of representation, but they didn't want to give any representation to their slaves. Why did this matter? Let's look at the numbers. In the 1790 census, just three years after the Constitution was ratified, the free states of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware had a population of about 1.8 million free whites. The slave states of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, had about 1.1 million free whites, and 633,000 slaves. Add those two numbers and you get nearly equal populations between the North and the South. By the time of the Civil War, the slave population had grown to 4 million. Imagine how much more powerful slave states would have been without the three fifths compromise: If one hundred percent of the slave population had been counted, slavery may very well have lasted into the 20th century. Why, you might ask, didn't the North simply insist that the South not count slaves at all? Because the slave states would never have agreed to join the Union. They would have formed their own country, and we would have had two nations - one free and one slave - living side-by-side in conflict from the very start. The three-fifths compromise was the solution to the most difficult challenge the Framers faced: how to create a single country out of people so divided on a fundamental issue. As discordant as the compromise sounds to modern ears, without it there would have been no United States. Following his defense of the compromise, Emory president James Wagner issued an apology to his outraged critics, asking forgiveness for his clumsiness and insensitivity. As it turns out, Wagner had nothing to apologize for. The three-fifths compromise didn't deny the humanity of blacks, it affirmed it. I'm Carol Swain for Prager University.
What's up guys this is Will Witt with Prager U today we are at Echo Park Lake We're gonna be asking people some questions about socialism. Should we have more socialism in America? Yes, definitely. Should we have socialism in America? I think we already have an element of socialism already, but I believe in the tenants of socialism and yes, I think we should have more I mean ideally This I mean it sounds like a great idea. It's one of the options we haven't really tried yet and what we have been trying clearly isn't working. What do you think about socialism? I don't believe [in] socialism Why do you think young people like socialism so much? Free stuff Where have you seen socialism work in the world? You see, even like in Europe like France and At least they have like socialist parties as well as in Latin America with like Bolivia Venezuela? Venezuela, [deep voice] Venezuela, [deeper voice] Venezuela So you're from the UK. Yeah socialism working pretty well there? Not really because we have rampant capitalism Do you think we should have free education, higher education? Yeah hundred percent I think we're making something new here in the States and like it's we're defining it and I don't think people should be looking back at home Maybe you know Russia failed in this way like Soviet, you know or whatever, you know It's a wholly different situation. And where are you from? I'm from Russia And you really don't like socialism? Yes
How would you like to fund politicians with whom you strongly disagree? Not interested? How about if I forced you? How would I do that? Well, what if I said: if you don't pay, you lose your job. For decades millions of state and local government workers police, firefighters, teachers, and others have been forced to make that choice. And who forces them? Public-sector unions; that is, unions who represent public-sector employees. How? It's pretty straightforward. First, they demand employees pay hundreds of dollars in union dues as a condition of employment - meaning if they don't pay, they get fired. Next, they use that money to support and elect union-friendly politicians. Then, they negotiate contracts with those same politicians kinda like negotiating with yourself. It's a sweet deal unless you're a worker who doesn't agree with those union-friendly politicians. Or, the taxpayer who hasto foot the bill for those union contracts. This game plan is not a secret. Here's what the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees say on their website. "We elect our bosses, so we've got to elect politicians who support us and hold those politicians accountable." These perverse incentives might help explain why for most of American history, pretty much no one thought that unionizing government workers was a good idea. This includes liberal icon President Franklin Roosevelt. Roosevelt was a very strong supporter of private sector unions, but a very strong opponent of public sector unions. Here's what he said on the subject in 1937: All Government employees should realize that the process of collective bargaining cannot be transplanted into the public service... Roosevelt recognized that public-sector unions could hold the government hostage at will. They could simply threaten to walk off the job if they didn't get what they wanted. Sanitation workers, for example, could put public health at risk by refusing to collect the garbage. Other public employees would have similarly disruptive power. This was, Roosevelt believed, unthinkable and intolerable. In 1943 New York state's highest court agreed, calling government unions not only incompatible with the spirit of democracy, but inconsistent with every principle upon which our government is founded. In the late 1950's New York City and Wisconsin defied this view and allowed their public employees to unionize. But it was President John F. Kennedy who opened the floodgates. In order to win the support of union leadership in the 1960 presidential election, he promised to allow federal employees to unionize and fulfilled that promise with Executive Order 10988 in 1962. It was a shrewd political move, but a bad deal for the country and its consequences are still being felt today, as public-sector unionization spread rapidly in the decades that followed. Today, unions wield tremendous power in government. Try to fire a poor-performing government worker in New York City or Los Angeles. Or almost any unionized government employee anywhere. It's extremely difficult, if not impossible, no matter how incompetent they might be. According to one union contract in Michigan, employees could be caught drunk at work five times before being fired. And then there are the pension plans income paid out to government workers after they retire. Pensions barely exist in the private sector anymore. They're much too expensive. But they're standard for public-sector unions, and have bankrupted cities like Detroit and have government-union-heavy states like Illinois on the brink of financial calamity. Unfunded pension obligations - that is, money that the government doesn't have but has promised to government retirees - are anywhere from four to six trillion dollars nationwide. Over $250 billion of that belongs to Illinois alone. But fortunately, there is some hope. Today, 28 states have passed right-to-work laws stating that no worker can be forced to join or pay a union as a condition of employment. When joining and paying the union becomes voluntary, the same thing invariably happens: workers leave in droves. And thus the union's ability to manipulate the system, declines sharply. Now, the US Supreme Court has extended this right to public employees in the other 22 states as well. In Janus v. The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees the Court ruled that public employees cannot be compelled to pay union dues against their will. Millions of public-employees don't want to be pawns for the union agenda. Thanks to this ruling, they no longer have to be, and we the taxpayers have a fresh opportunity to make sure that our politicians work for us not the unions. I'm Akash Chougule, Senior Policy Fellow at Americans for Prosperity, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is Will Witt from Prager U. Today we're at the Keeping Families Together March here in downtown LA And we're gonna see what the people are marching about. Hitler was trying to put himself in place of God. That's what Trump is doing. You think we should have open borders? Well, the borders are kind of a construct. So in a sense they are open. What does your sign mean? It's abolish ICE, abolished Trump, and Ivanka Trump's a complicit *censored*. Do you think we should build a wall? No. Why not? It's unnecessary. Il Duce, Mussolini, um Hitler, Stalin, um Putin, any of these guys. Pol Pot, Trump. Yeah, they're all birds of a feather. We don't have accurate information. We do not have a democracy. For that, I do not forgive Trump. Do you guys think we should have open borders? I think personally we should. I have stopped coloring my hair ever since Hillary got the big F.U. from the American people. I, I don't color my hair anymore. Well, you look fantastic. It's cos of my sign. Should we have open borders? Yes. We, we will no borders in all the world. What does your sign mean? Uh It says ICE is a terrorist organization. If someone crosses the border illegally, what should we do with the child? Keep them with a family. Ok, and just let them into the country. Yes. Ok. So we shouldn't build a wall? No. Why not? Because it's shown that it doesn't work. If that's the case then everyone should have a wall up. Everyone should have a wall up. That's why celebrities have walls around their homes, so that people can't get in. True. But if.... True. Ok This separating children from their families is a horrible thing, and it was happening under Obama as well. So it's not just Trump's fault, right? Um. Uh... grant... well, I would... Why should we abolish ICE? ICE is tearing families apart. It's, it's a pointless kind of program There's a longer conversation we can have about my opinion about the Native Americans and I think what was hap- what happened to them was extremely tragic and that is also a form of terrorism. Yes. I think that the land belongs to the natives. We should give it back to them? Absolutely. So we should leave? Yeah. When are we flyin' out? Right now. Ok, cool!
Tolerance. It's a word we hear a lot these days. So, let's define it. Tolerance is the ability to live with people whose opinions and behavior you don't agree with. That's essentially how Oxford defines it, how Merriam-Webster defines it, and how we, as a society, have always defined it. You might be for the death penalty, and your cousin might be against it. You might be against a $15 minimum wage, and your coworker might be for it. Your dad might have voted for Trump, your mom might have voted for Clinton, and your brother may not have voted at all. Whatever differences we have, tolerating others' opinions is a prerequisite to a functioning and free society. America itself was built on a foundation of tolerance. The Declaration of Independence guarantees us life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. But there's an implicit contract there: To have your life, your liberty, and your pursuit of happiness, you have to be tolerant of somebody else's life, their liberty, and their pursuit of happiness. This contract, though, seems to be breaking down. If you listen to the mainstream media, only one side is living up to this deal: the left. The right, according to the media, is intolerant of everyone...except those darned white, heterosexual, Christian males. There's only one problem. It's just not true. Incredibly, the left isn't even tolerant of the very people they say they're tolerant of! If you're gay, or black, or an immigrant, and you're not in lockstep with current leftist orthodoxy, you know exactly what I'm talking about. If you believe we should judge people on the content of their character and not the color of their skin, the left calls you racist. If you believe that America is a nation of immigrants, but that our country should also protect its borders, the left calls you a xenophobe. If you believe that men and women are equal but fundamentally different, the left calls you sexist. Here's the thing: those who only tolerate people they agree with or like aren't actually tolerant. So, who is tolerant? Is it the organizers of the Women's March, who had to apologize for the hurt and confusion they caused when they invited a man - leftist icon Bernie Sanders - to speak at their convention? Is it the Antifa thugs, who caused UC Berkeley to spend $600,000 on security when mainstream conservative Ben Shapiro showed up to give a talk? Or is it democratic congresswoman Maxine Waters, who scolded Kanye West for talking out of turn when he dared suggest that blacks should think for themselves? These aren't isolated examples. I'm guessing that you - person watching this right now - have silenced yourself because you don't want to suffer the wrath of the outrage mob. So, let me ask the question again: Who is tolerant? Well, here's the surprise: It's actually those scary right-wingers that the media and the universities demonize every day. I speak from personal experience. Maybe I'm a glutton for punishment here, but I still consider myself a liberal. And it's my duty as a liberal to say what I think. I would rather stand for what I believe and be hated than bow down and be loved. The left, sadly, has become utterly intolerant of anyone with whom they disagree. Why? Because they believe that they know how you should live and how you should think. Any deviation, any non-conformity, is dangerous to that goal. Believe it or not, the right, these days, actually welcomes diversity of thought. I can tell you that in the last few years of my political evolution, I've consistently found conservatives to be tolerant and open-minded. Don't take my word for it, though. Test it out for yourself. Go talk to some. They do exist, and they do things like watch movies, travel, and eat ethnic food - you know, regular people things. You know what I found out? The right, much more than the left, believes in the notion of live and let live. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the true definition of tolerance. I'm Dave Rubin, of The Rubin Report, for Prager University.
The year was 1862. America was in the depths of the Civil War. Looking back, it's easy to believe that a Union victory was inevitable. The North had more money, more population, more industry. But no one thought that at the time. In the first year of the war, it looked as if the South would win. A series of high-profile victories in the east convinced many that Confederates were better fighters, under better leaders. Where would President Lincoln find a battlefield general who could do for the Union what Robert E. Lee was doing for the Confederacy - lead it to victory? The man he found, the man who saved the Union, was Ulysses S. Grant. He wasn't Lincoln's first choice - or second, or third. In fact, when the war started in 1861, Lincoln had no idea who Ulysses S. Grant was. Hardly surprising since, at the time, Grant was selling hats to farmers' wives in a small town in Illinois. His rise to glory is one of the most amazing stories in American history. Born in Ohio on April 27, 1822, Grant had no ambition to be a soldier. His father pushed him into it, thinking he wasn't suited for much else. Grant's West Point career wasn't especially distinguished, either. But during the Mexican-American War (1846-1848), Grant proved himself to be an officer of unusual ability. He was cool under fire, daring, but rarely reckless. Even more important, the men under his command trusted him. After that war, Grant returned to St. Louis to marry his fiance, Julia Dent, the daughter of a slave-owning Missouri farmer. Grant was never happier than when he was with Julia. And he was never unhappier than when he was not. Unfortunately, in this period, Army life forced them to be separated - sometimes for many months. To assuage his loneliness, Grant started to drink. While in a distant posting in northern California, a thousand miles from Julia, his drinking got the better of him. He resigned his Army commission to avoid an embarrassing court-martial. It was downhill from there, one business venture failing after another. By 1860, thoroughly humiliated and with no money and no prospects, he was back working for his father in the small town of Galena, Illinois. Then, the Civil War happened. The Union was in desperate need of experienced soldiers. Grant volunteered. His leadership skills were immediately obvious. He quickly advanced through the ranks. In a little more than six months, he scored two major victories at Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, along the Tennessee and Cumberland rivers. He followed these up with victory in the largest battle in American history up to that time - the Battle of Shiloh - making him a true Union hero in a cause that was starved for heroes. There was nothing flashy about Grant's generalship. All he did was win. Unlike the overly-cautious generals that drove President Lincoln to distraction, Grant's battle plan was to always move forward, always put pressure on his foes. Any advantage the Union had in technology or manpower he employed to the fullest. Like Napoleon, Grant was a superb reader of maps. He could identify the enemy's vulnerabilities and exploit them, as he did in his brilliant 1863 Campaign for Vicksburg - a campaign that is still studied at war colleges. In March 1864, Lincoln made Grant commander of all the Union armies. It took more than a year of the war's hardest fighting before Lee surrendered and the war finally came to an end. By this point the president and his general had developed a close bond. Shortly after Grant returned to Washington, Lincoln invited the Grants to join him and Mary Lincoln at Ford's Theatre. Grant accepted. Julia, however, had developed an intense dislike for Mary Lincoln and insisted that her husband get out of the commitment. Embarrassed, Grant did. That night, in that theatre, Lincoln was assassinated. As the commander of all Union armies, Grant was placed in a terrible bind, having to walk a tightrope between new president Andrew Johnson's pro-South agenda, which favored the old white aristocracy, and protecting, as Lincoln intended, the newly-won rights of the freed slaves. Grant had saved America once as a general. Could he save it again as a politician? Running as the Republican candidate for president, Grant easily won election in 1868, and then again, in 1872. During his tenure, he fought to secure the passage of the 15th Amendment, which guaranteed all American citizens the right to vote, regardless of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. He created the Department of Justice, broke up the Ku Klux Klan, and advocated for the rights of Indians. He presided over the completion of the transcontinental railroad and a rapidly expanding industrial economy. But Grant wasn't done. One week before his death on July 23, 1885, he completed his autobiography. It became one of the best-selling books of the 19th century. Of Grant's amazing life, Frederick Douglass wrote a fitting epithet: In him, the negro found a protector, the Indian a friend, a vanquished foe a brother, an imperiled nation a savior. I'm Garry Adelman, director of history and education at The Civil War Trust, for Prager University.
The communist government of the former Soviet Union thought that by controlling access to information, they could keep their citizens in line. Consistent with the Orwellian nature of the Soviet Union, the country's most important newspaper was Pravda. Pravda is the Russian word for truth. But Pravda was not truth. It was full of lies. But here's the thing: Almost no one in the Soviet Union was fooled. They knew they were being lied to. Ironically, unlike most citizens in the Soviet Union, citizens in 21st-century America are fooled by their news media. We think we're getting the real story from our major media, but we're not. When we tune into the networks, or read the New York Times or the Washington Post, we're actually getting a sharply slanted version of the news. Slanted to the left. This should deeply concern people on both sides of the political divide. To make informed decisions, a free society needs a press it can trust - not one that is hopelessly biased. In 2017, Project Veritas sent out undercover reporters to see how committed the major media was to objective news gathering, specifically as it regarded the newly-elected president, Donald Trump. Our first report focused on CNN. A producer there, John Bonifield, acknowledged the lack of evidence for his network's efforts to link the Trump campaign and the Russian government in a plot to rig the 2016 election. Bonifield told us, I think the president is probably right to say, like, Look, you are witch-hunting me. You have no smoking gun; you have no real proof.' So, why was CNN so relentless in hammering the Russia collusion narrative? Ideology - "the election wasn't legitimate - and ratings. As Bonifield noted, the Trump/Russia collusion story was good for business. Next, we released another series of reports, these on the New York Times. First, we heard from Nick Dudich, the paper's audience strategy editor. Dudich told our undercover reporter he was responsible for choosing which New York Times videos go on Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram. Dudich boasted, My imprint is on every video we do. And what was that imprint about? As Dudich, who worked on both the Obama and Hillary Clinton campaigns, told our reporter, he hoped to use his position to make the president's life as difficult as possible. I will be objective, he told our reporter with undisguised sarcasm before revealing his true intentions: No, I'm not. That's why I'm here. Dudich told us he returned to journalism precisely in order to remain politically active. Next, we met Des Shoe, an editor for the paper. She made it clear where she stood. I think one of the things that maybe journalists were thinking about is, like, oh - if we write about [Trump], about how insanely crazy he is and how ludicrous his policies are, then maybe people will read it and be, like, oh, wow - we shouldn't vote for him. According to the Times's own handbook on journalistic ethics, journalists may not do anything that damages The Times's reputation for strict neutrality in reporting on politics and government. So, given such a breach of the Times's own standards, we expected the newspaper to come down hard on Dudich and Shoe. Instead, they came down hard on us! Executive editor Dean Baquet said I was a despicable person for recording one of his employees telling the truth. Yet, when the Times publicized a 2012 undercover video of Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney saying that 47 percent of Americans wouldn't vote for him because they were dependent on the government, they praised it as offering a rare glimpse of [Romney's] personal views. In fact, in his attack on us, Baquet unwittingly gave the whole American media game away. A real journalist, he told a panel at the National Press Club, has to have in his or her heart a desire to make society better. The Times's editor is wrong. Real journalists want to pursue the truth. Then they let the citizens use that truth to build a better society. When journalists shape news to fit their vision of a better society, they're not doing their job. Perhaps this wouldn't be so bad if the major media would just admit their political motives. But they don't. On behalf of their own narrow agenda, they lie, distort and exaggerate. And they expect us to call it Pravda. But, with each passing day, fewer and fewer Americans are willing to do so. I'm James O'Keefe, founder and president of Project Veritas, for Prager University.
What's up guys. This is Will Wit with Prager U. Today we're asking people on Hollywood Boulevard if they can answer questions on the US citizenship test. What political party is the current president apart of? None He's affiliated with Trump Inc. Can you name one U.S Representative? No. Can you guys name a US representative in Congress? No. Nope. What are the two parts of US Congress? I don't know. What are the two parts of US Congress? F*** Trump. I don't know. I don't know that either. What are the two parts of US Congress? House representative and the Senate. Why are there 13 stripes on the flag? I forget. Why are there 13 stripes on the US flag? Oh, geez. Who's the current vice president? Uhh, Obama? Who is the current vice president? Joe Biden. Close. What's the longest river in America? Not sure. I'm not even show the only um, I'ma go with a guess: Lake Michigan. It's a river. What are the three branches of government? Judicial, executive, I can't remember the last. Legislative. She knew it. What are the three branches of government? Judicial, legislative, and executive. Segregational... something like that and then congressional something like that we gonna go with those three. What is the first amendment? Oh That's isn't that oh I'll make a personal to you. How about that? Mr. Shades Holdin' the microphone and askin' my name. These are questions from the US citizenship test. So, you guys are getting deported. Send me back cuz f*** Trump. Can you guys name a Drake song? "Look Alive" I'm from Memphis; "Look Alive." Can you name a lady gaga song? "Telephone". "Bad Romance". Can you guys name a lady gaga song? "Pokerface" Together. What are the three Kardashian sisters names? Khloe, Kim, and Kourtney. Khloe, Kourtney, and Kim. Can you name all three Kardashian sisters? Khloe Kourtney and Kim that was your fastest one yet. I know it's sad
You probably think your opinions matter. You probably think you're an individual with unique experiences, thoughts and ambitions. Well, I hate to break it to you, but according to current leftist orthodoxy, you're wrong. You see, your opinion only matters relative to your identity - and where that identity ranks on the hierarchy of intersectionality. If you're now thinking, What the hell are you talking about? you haven't spent much time on a modern college campus. Intersectionality is a form of identity politics in which the value of your opinion depends on how many victim groups you belong to. At the bottom of the totem pole is the person everybody loves to hate - the straight, white male. And who's at the top? Well, it's very hard to say, because new groups claim victim status all the time. No one can keep track. So, how does this intersectionality thing play out? Something like this: Let's say you're a gay, white woman. Your opinion matters, but less than that of a gay, black woman. Why? Because while all women are oppressed by the patriarchy, and all gays are oppressed by the heterosexual majority, blacks have a victim status that whites obviously don't. Of course, a gay black woman's victim status is less than that of a black trans woman, who ranks below a black, Muslim trans woman, and so on. The more memberships you can claim in oppressed groups, the more aggrieved you are, and the higher you rank. Get it? Good, because it's about to get even more complicated. Intersectionality takes your victim status and uses it as the basis for creating alliances with other victim groups. Thirty or forty years ago, activists encouraged racial solidarity among blacks to combat oppression. But today, that's not enough. Today's activists demand blacks make common cause with other allegedly oppressed people - gays, lesbians, transgenders, Palestinians, Native Americans, whomever. Here's the logic: A black gay and a Hispanic gay may not belong to the same victim group racially, but they do belong to the same victim group on the basis of their sexuality. By focusing on the places where various victim identities intersect, intersectionality creates a united us versus them paradigm: righteous victims rising up together to fight the oppressor, those dreaded straight, white men. This explains why at a rally protesting the treatment of Palestinians by Israel, you might see a contingent of lesbian activists. That's intersectionality at work. They're so united by their victim status that it doesn't matter if Islamists throw gays off of buildings or murder female family members who defy their father's wishes. Victim solidarity trumps all other considerations. The term intersectionality was coined by Kimberl Crenshaw, a professor of law at Columbia University. She explains that intersectionality was my attempt to make feminism, anti-racist activism, and anti-discrimination law do what I thought they should - highlight the multiple avenues through which racial and gender oppression were experienced To Crenshaw, America is a terrible place full of victim groups, each with their particular set of grievances. Why shouldn't these victim groups get together and form a political coalition unified by the belief that the majority society has harmed them? That some professor tucked away in an ivory tower would come up with this nonsense is not surprising. What is surprising - and disturbing - is that so many people actually go along with it. America is the most open, least racist nation on the planet. That professor Crenshaw is free to spin her nonsensical theories and get paid well for it should offer adequate proof of that. And since when do you have to live someone's experience in order to understand them? You don't have to live as a slave in order to understand that slavery is cruel and wrong. You don't have to live as a woman in order to recognize the evil of rape. Finally, and most important, intersectionality promotes the biggest hoax of all: that we aren't individuals who are to be judged on the basis of how we act, but are merely members of groups to be judged on the basis of our group identity. In other words, you and I as individuals with our unique experiences, thoughts and ambitions count for nothing; our racial and sexual identity count for everything. It's hard to imagine an idea less likely to produce a free and equal America than that. But what do I know? I'm just a straight, white male. I'm Ben Shapiro for Prager University.
You may not realize it, but you are currently funding some dangerous people. They are indoctrinating young minds throughout the West with their resentment-ridden ideology. They have made it their life's mission to undermine Western civilization itself, which they regard as corrupt, oppressive and patriarchal. If you're a taxpayer - or paying for your kid's liberal arts degree - you're underwriting this gang of nihilists. You're supporting ideologues who claim that all truth is subjective; that all sex differences are socially constructed; and that Western imperialism is the sole source of all Third World problems. They are the post-modernists, pushing progressive activism at a college near you. They produce the mobs that violently shut down campus speakers; the language police who enshrine into law use of fabricated gender pronouns; and the deans whose livelihoods depend on madly rooting out discrimination where little or none exists. Their thinking took hold in Western universities in the 60s and 70s, when the true believers of the radical left became the professors of today. And now we rack up education-related debt - not so that our children learn to think critically, write clearly, or speak properly, but so they can model their mentors' destructive agenda. It's now possible to complete an English degree and never encounter Shakespeare - one of those dead white males whose works underlie our society of oppression. To understand and oppose the post-modernists, the ideas by which they orient themselves must be clearly identified. First is their new unholy trinity of diversity, equity and inclusion. Diversity is defined not by opinion, but by race, ethnicity or sexual identity; equity is no longer the laudable goal of equality of opportunity, but the insistence on equality of outcome; and inclusion is the use of identity-based quotas to attain this misconceived state of equity. All the classic rights of the West are to be considered secondary to these new values. Take, for example, freedom of speech - the very pillar of democracy. The post-modernists refuse to believe that people of good will can exchange ideas and reach consensus. Their world is instead a Hobbesian nightmare of identity groups warring for power. They don't see ideas that run contrary to their ideology as simply incorrect. They see them as integral to the oppressive system they wish to supplant, and consider it a moral obligation to stifle and constrain their expression. Second is rejection of the free market - of the very idea that free, voluntary trading benefits everyone. They won't acknowledge that capitalism has lifted up hundreds of millions of people so they can for the first time in history afford food, shelter, clothing, transportation - even entertainment and travel. Those classified as poor in the US (and, increasingly, everywhere else) are able to meet their basic needs. Meanwhile, in once-prosperous Venezuela - until recently the poster-child of the campus radicals - the middle class lines up for toilet paper. Third, and finally, are the politics of identity. Post-modernists don't believe in individuals. You're an exemplar of your race, sex, or sexual preference. You're also either a victim or an oppressor. No wrong can be done by anyone in the former group, and no good by the latter. Such ideas of victimization do nothing but justify the use of power and engender intergroup conflict. All these concepts originated with Karl Marx, the 19th-century German philosopher. Marx viewed the world as a gigantic class struggle - the bourgeoisie against the proletariat; the grasping rich against the desperate poor. But wherever his ideas were put into practice - in the Soviet Union, China, Vietnam, and Cambodia, to name just a few - whole economies failed, and tens of millions were killed. We fought a decades-long cold war to stop the spread of those murderous notions. But they're back, in the new guise of identity politics. The corrupt ideas of the post-modern neo-Marxists should be consigned to the dustbin of history. Instead, we underwrite their continuance in the very institutions where the central ideas of the West should be transmitted across the generations. Unless we stop, post-modernism will do to America and the entire Western world what it's already done to its universities. I'm Jordan Peterson, Professor of Psychology at the University of Toronto, for Prager University.
Some of you may be wondering why President Trump decided to get us out of the Iran Deal. Well, let's discuss it. In 2015, the United States and President Obama, along with various other countries, signed the Iran Deal. The deal was created in order to make sure that Iran can never have the ability to develop nuclear weapons. The IAEA, which is the nuclear watchdog of the UN, was given the task as the enforcer of the deal. Let's just say they have a spotty record at that particular task. SONG: France got the bomb, but don't you grieve, cus they're on our side I believe. China got the bomb, but have no fears, they can't wipe us out for at least five years. Who's next? So Israel's getting tense, wants one in self defense. The Lord is our shepherd, says the psalm, but just in casewe better get a bomb. Who's next? Who's next? Who's next? Who's Next? The Iran Deal has been lauded as the only thing between Iran and a nuclear weapon. One of the chief reasons for optimism is its unprecedented inspection regime led by the IAEA. For instance, they can inspect any site at any time. Well, as long as the Iranians don't designate it a military site and after the Iranians exhaust their official inquiry as to why that site was chosen in the first place, followed by a 24 hour mandated wait before inspectors are allowed into the site at all. The actual time from inspection request to boots on the ground? Well, that may take several months. And the Iranians, they know how to use their time wisely. In 2003, the Lavizan facility in Iran was outed as a nuclear weapons site. The IAEA sought permission to visit the sitea year and a half later. In the interim, publicly available satellite imagery showed that the entire site was razed including the removal of the first 6 feet of top soil eliminating all traces of evidence. The IAEA, after inspecting the scrubbed-down site, was satisfied and they considered the matter to be closed. But I didn't. Ami: Now I'm not a nuclear expert, but umI am playing one in this movie. You have Lavizan. There was satellite imagery that showed evidence of a nuclear weapons program. Explain to the audience why you felt the need to then dig the first 6 feet of topsoil, remove it, then re-cover it. What would be the reason behind that? Soltanieh: That is closed and clearly the IAEA report director general says that that was absolutely incorrect and there was no evidence of nuclear material or nuclear activities. And you can read the agency's report at the IAEA website Ami: But that report is meaningless because you dumped all the evidence. Soltanieh: No evidence. You can go to the website, and if you're interested, I can show you and give you a copy of it. Ami: Why raze the area and then cover it with soil? Soltanieh: Look, I think that you're bringing up an obsolete issue but Ami: How is it obsolete? Soltanieh: That's very old stuff. The important thing as I go back again rather than you and me discuss about it, it is better to leave it to the experts; inspectors. Gary Milhollin: It's supposed to sound the alarm when elicit nuclear activity is discovered. But so far, it's been very reluctant to do that. Ami: I think it's established, it's clear you're not building nuclear weapons. I think you made the argument very fine. But if you did build a nuclear weapon, what country would you blow up first? Soltanieh: The question is wrong. Ami: So I have your word? You're not building nuclear weapons? Soltanieh: Certainly. 100% And I totally reject any of these allegations. Ami: So, like the IAEA, that's good enough for me. A way out is to have a timeout. Iran will take a timeout. The international community will also take a timeout. Mark Kirk: Let the United Nations handle this incompetently and [you] allow Iran to have nuclear weapons. It was all about process. It was not about results. The results were worthless. Now are they intending to kill someone? Or are they only intending to defend themselves? But how do you know whether they have that intention or not? It's impossible to say such a country has that intention. Then again, what is the intention? Ami: Only God knowsand anyone who reads. So Americans can sleep soundly? Duarte: Not all Americans, I hope that everyone else can also sleep soundly. Ami: The IAEA is on the watch. Duarte: Yes Music Charles Duelfer: Process is an outcome at the UN. It is a way of avoiding and kicking a problem down the road. A single country like Iran can play to them. They can say All we need to do is buy some time. Ami: And the Iran Deal did just that.
I never graduated college. I never even went to college. I went to the University of Digging Ditches on Construction Sites go Fighting Shovels! So, why should you listen to me? Hmmm, let's see Well, I run a business that I built myself. So, let me give you a couple of tips. I hire and fire people like you all the time. And I've seen a pattern with your generation - something I call The Language of Losers. Let me give you some examples: I did my best. My assistant told me this once after screwing up royally. And I said, Matt, if you did your best and you screwed up royally, then I need to fire you right now. The answer is either, I didn't do my best, I'll do better next time' or, I'm drunk right now and need to sit down.' So the phrase I've drilled into my employees is, Don't do your best; do my best.' Another example: I had a young employee once say to me, I'm sorry. I screwed up. Next time, I'll triple check. And I said, Did you single check? Did you double check? How did you get to triple check? I know how he got to triple check. Single check is a screw up. Double check isehhhha flub. And triple check is, Hey, what do you want from me? So, he hopped right to triple-check after not single- or double-checking. And the worst one - the one that's driving me nuts, the one that's destroying our society, the one that got hold of the piece of thread of the sweater of society and is just unraveling it: I feel. I feel threatened. I feel I'm being treated unfairly. I feel you're a bully. You're 23. You live at home. Your bed is shaped like a race car and it's covered with stuffies and your huggie-bookie. Nobody cares how you feel. So, no excuses. Please. If you do the job you're hired to do and you do it well, your employer will never stop thanking you and lavishing you with ponies, and frankincense, and myrrh. Now, you do your job well and you're not rewarded? Someone else will find you and reward you. Believe me, that's how the universe works. But, let's face it - the chances of any of you working for me are slim to none. The chances some of you may go out there and set some policy are pretty good. And most of you are going to vote on that policy. So, let me ask you a favor: please, stay away from my freedom. If you want to know about the loss of freedom, look no further than the beach. I grew up in Southern California. I used to go to the beach all the time. There was one sign, and that sign read, No lighting vans on fire and throwing the homeless into it. Now you go to the beach and the sign looks like a menu from Fuddruckers. It never ends! No football. No fires. No smoking. No alcohol. And now, no frisbee. No digging. No sandcastle. No dogs. The beach is a metaphor for this country. It's freedom. It means freedom. Everyone who came to this country landed on the beach. They didn't land in Nebraska. They pulled up to the beach, they cracked a beer, they lit a cigarette, and they threw a frisbee. And now, you can't do jack squat on the beach. Look no further than the beach sign from the fifties and the beach sign from 2018. All it gets is longer. And, do the politicians ever show up with their eraser and go, Hmmlet's remove a few of these Orwellian ideas that we put on this bonderized steel in front of the beach? No! More things to assure we have a horrible time at the beach, don't enjoy ourselves and, more importantly, could get a ticket - just because we're there, trying to drink a cold one, make a sandcastle, and throw the dog the tennis ball. Don't be one of those people who adds to the sign on the beach. You be with me: sittin' on a folding chair with a cigar between my lips and a beer between my legs. So, you're graduating and you're all idealistic. You want to make the world a better place. Here's my request: Don't make it worse. I'm Adam Carolla for Prager University.
What's up guys. This is Will Wit with PragerU today. We're asking people on Hollywood Boulevard if there's a difference between men and women. Is there a difference between men and women? No, we're all equal. Is there a difference between men and women? I think there is, yeah. Are there differences between men and women? I would definitely say so, yes What differences are those? I would say emotionally and physically. Is there a difference between men and women, Mr. Trump? What are the differences between men and women? Genital parts, obviously. That's pretty much it. Do you think women cry and are more emotional than men? That's the society portrayed but I know a lot of men who cry. I cried last night What do you think is better raising a family a man or a woman? These are tough questions, aren't they? I would say my natural instinct would say a woman just because she has more maternal instinct. You don't think men are more career oriented and women are more suited for raising children? Do you think I'm a good man or a bad man? You're a player. Would you guys rather have a successful marriage or a successful career? Successful marriage. Successful marriage. Successful career. Would you rather have a successful marriage or a successful career? I mean I don't plan to get married so, I guess that one's out of the question Do you think a woman can do anything that a man can do? Yeah You think a man can do anything a woman can do? No You don't think women can do what men do? We can't let me and don't want us and they judge us for it Do you think a woman can do anything that a man can do? Oh Hell, yeah Sometimes even better Okay, like Hillary Clinton. Oh, yeah, exactly like Hillary Clinton Automatic subtitle improvement: euskaragara.net
How's it going everyone this is will wit with Prager U ''hello!'' And Allie Stuckey how you doing me I'm doing well How are you? I'm great Conservative millennial you have your show on CR TV. The you do Podcast on CTV it's like a since your TV as well. You're doing a video with us today. Yes, I am. I'm so excited So why don't you tell the audience a little bit about what's going on with that today? It's gonna be one of my new favorite videos. Let me just say yes it's about this kind of myth of toxic masculinity in this trend that's going on in society about You know making men less masculine in order to make them less toxic. But when we do that when we create passive men That's not really good for society at all passive men Don't do the things that we need them to do to defend to protect to provide for us So... it's not going to end well And that's what I kind of cover in my in my vdeo,,,yeah... in the video about toxic masculinity Do you think women have a role to play in this? Is there something that they can do to help combat these feminine men? Well, I think it's women that are kind of on the forefront of this movement to feminize men It's these third wave feminists that are saying oh Because men start wars because they're predominantly the abusers that we're hearing about in the news Then it must be manliness and masculinity. That's the problem. It's not it's morality We still need good men. Just like we need good women We need strong men just like we need strong women, but the fact of the matter is throughout history societies cultures Nations communities have been built on this keystone of strong good responsible Masculinity and when you take that away you no longer have cohesive societies anymore Yeah, and why do you think that these Third Wave feminists (these women)want to destroy men? Why do you think they want to bring down men institutions? I just did the video on why girls shouldn't be in the Boy Scouts and it seems women want to destroy everything!right! these men not sanctuaries but things that men have had they have this false idea that Because men are predominantly in positions of leadership, which is true there are more male CEOs than female CEOs there are more man in Congress than women then it must not be because there's something innate in us there. It's not because men and women are actually different It must be because men are Suppressing women through this patriarchal structure when that's not true. We just different we have different drives We have different desires. We have different priorities That doesn't mean that women shouldn't be in positions of leadership But it does mean that women typically select different paths of life than men do just because we are made differently But that's what they want to deny and they think that the road to equality to a Galit arianism is making men and women The same is to making women more masculine and men more feminine, but that's just not how we were created exactly I think we need to be celebrating our differences between men and women complimenting each other exactly exactly Like I've been watching your videos And a lot of them are great and a lot of them I think is great to see you trying to empower women Which I think is a great thing on as a conservative because you have all these again feminists who are trying to empower women but they say oh you should be sleeping with every single guy you want and be 45 and alone with three cats and you know, Nothing wrong with cats, by the way That's what we really came here to talk exactly But they're telling these women that and you sort of have a different appeal to that about empowering women. I think that's really strong Well, that's because feminists are so kind of paradoxical and their arguments They simultaneously say that women are so independent that we're so empowered that we don't need men But we also need to be exactly like men in order to be empowered and I think that women should be strong We should have voices. We should have and important places in society. However, we do that by using our own god-given, or even if you're you know You don't believe in God our own inherent qualities in order to do that. Women are better nurtures We're generally better communicators We are better at building relationships at doing multiple things at once than men are. That's not a bad thing! Those are strengths that we should be leveraging that we should be using, rather than trying to be more masculine or pretending for example that we don't care about one-night stands that you know We're a completely detached from our relationships and sexuality. That's just not true about women and that's okay We should be embracing those things and using them for good. Yeah In other news did you see today? Stormy Daniels got a key to the city here in Los Angeles. She did right here. These are your people In texas they would never tolerate something like that!! Yes, yes, of course no keys for stormy Daniels in Dallas, yeah, I live in Hollywood and pretty much everyone there has pink hair They're all the feminists that exactly they're talking about and they applauded stormy Daniels for getting this Casey What do you think? which I I really don't understand one: she has spoken out against the me too movement So she is she's not a progressive person. She's just anti Trump because of you know, everything that's been going on in the scandal That's going on with her But she's not any type of progressive hero and the funny thing is actually in the speech when he was... giving the key to stormy Daniels. He was talking about holding up your head and dignity and I'm like We are really talking about a pornstar indignity in the same sentence That's how insane the left is when it comes to things like morality and empowerment and things like that quite frankly There's nothing empowering about stormy Daniels and that's an independent of her relationship with Trump and all of that Um, she's a she's a porn star but that's kind of what we see on the left. Is this idea of Moral relativism and you should be able to do whatever you want with your body And that's what it means to be truly empowered..... no. It's not... that's objectifying and it's sexually very demeaning to women I don't see the empowerment in it at all these free-spirited women who just do whatever they want... have sex with whoever...(interrupts) and who ends up miserable and alone for the rest of their lives by the way...(thats what Im saying) Okay, so if you had to say what your favorite Prager U video is, do you have one? Hmmm... yes, so there's a Prager u video from I think it was maybe last August it was in the middle of 2017 and it was If you hate poverty or if you want to eliminate poverty Then you should be a capitalist or you should advocate for capitalism and I just thought it did such a good job of Breaking down why capitalism is really the impetus for positive change in society and where it came from and what it actually does it just makes you stop to think even as someone who is a capitalist. Wait, why has the economic conversation been hijacked by the left. Sure. They have the... they have the cultural movement They have the social and the moral conversation, but why has the economic conversation been hijacked by them, but it's because the economy and social Issues actually go hand-in-hand and it's just interesting how there's so much in misinformation out there about that And I also think capitalism is the one issue that could bring the left and the right together So I just thought it was very informative. Yeah. Well, I just saw this aj+ video I don't know If you saw that just came out with the lady who does their videos and she was explaining why socialism shouldn't be a dirty Word and I'm just waiting for one of these ladies or one of these people who loved socialism to go live in Venezuela. No, No That's not real socialism because it doesn't work...hasnt been tried real socialism yet...yeah yeah Yeah, well Ally I appreciate you coming on thank you so much always a pleasure Everyone's looking forward to your video too so meets you awesome hashtag me too. No Awesome guys, thank you for watching. This is will win Natalie Stuckey for Prager you Cool Hashtag me too
The United States had to fight not one, but two wars for its independence. The first, of course, was the Revolutionary War. Can you name the second? It was the War of 1812. Now, both wars were against the British. And in both cases, the Americans should have lost. The Revolutionary War is very much celebrated in American history. The second one has all but been forgotten. But had it been lost, America's history would have been much, much different. The British precipitated the war by failing to recognize the United States as a sovereign nation. For five years between 1807 and 1812, they repeatedly disrupted American commerce, boarding American merchant ships, capturing their sailors - over 5,000 of them - and forcing them to work on British ships. Finally, President James Madison said, Enough! and on June 18, 1812, Congress declared war on Britain. The euphoria didn't last long. And for good reason. The Americans had no viable strategy, no standing army to speak of, no generals worthy of the rank, a very small navy, a wholly inadequate supply of munitions. It was a different story on the British side. They had all the men, ships, generals and admirals they needed - and then some. If these upstart Yankees wanted war, the British were only too happy to accommodate them. Things went pretty much as expected: one American defeat after another, culminating in the burning of Washington, D.C. The great prize of the war was not the tiny American capital, or even the larger, nearby city of Baltimore. The prize the British wanted was the gateway to the American West, the city at the mouth of the Mississippi River - New Orleans. If Britain controlled this key southern port, it could check American expansion, confining it to the eastern half of the continent for the foreseeable future. To take New Orleans, the British amassed an enormous sea and land force - 60 ships, 10,000 men. And what could the Americans offer by way of defense? Enter Andrew Jackson, one of the most remarkable figures in American history. Born in 1767 in the territories of the Carolinas, Jackson first encountered the British during the Revolutionary War. His memories were not happy ones. His mother and his two brothers died in the war. And Jackson himself was left with a permanent scar, the gift of a British officer who slashed him with his sword when the teenage boy refused to clean his boots. Self-educated, Jackson settled in Nashville, Tennessee. There he became a frontier lawyer and, after Tennessee was admitted to the Union, served briefly as its sole congressman, then as a senator representing the new state. Though he had no formal military training, Jackson was elected major general of the Tennessee militia and gained fighting experience leading several successful campaigns against the Indians of the region. He inspired both great loyalty and great fear in the men under his command: loyalty because he fought beside them, enduring every hardship they endured; and fear because he demanded strict military discipline. Given the inherently rebellious, don't-tread-on-me nature of the frontiersmen under his command, this was no mean feat. But Jackson had never faced a foe like the British: a highly disciplined, battle-tested army. On his side of the ledger, the American general had a motley assortment of volunteers, militiamen, freemen of color, Indians, and regulars. Joined by legendary New Orleans pirate Jean Lafitte and his pirate band, the American force was still less than half of what the British had in numbers and far less in combat experience. But for all their deficiencies, Jackson's men had three talents he fully exploited: they knew the terrain, they knew how to dig, and they knew how to shoot. The Battle of New Orleans began in earnest at dawn January 8, 1815. The overconfident British had no idea what they were in for. Wading through the mud of Louisiana swamps and thwarted by Jackson's hastily constructed, but formidable, ramparts, one British charge after another was cut down by deadly accurate American artillery and rifle fire. When it was over, it amounted to the worst defeat in British military history. No two accounts of the battle would agree on the exact casualty count, but all agreed it was stunningly high. According to one British infantry captain, three generals, seven colonels, seventy-five officers a total of seventeen hundred and eighty-one officers and soldiers had fallen in a few minutes. The American losses amounted to no more than a dozen dead. The War of 1812, America's second war of independence, began badly and only got worse. But it ended with one of the greatest victories in American military history. It made Jackson a national hero and set up his successful run for the presidency thirteen years later. Even more, it guaranteed the western expansion of the United States would proceed without interruption. I'm Brian Kilmeade for Prager University.
If you listen to the mainstream media, you probably think fraternity brothers are a bunch of racist misogynist bullies. Here's the truth. What's up guys this is Will Witt with PragerU. Fraternities have been getting a lot of flak from the media recently and a lot of what the media is saying just isn't true. Firstly they say fraternity brothers are racist. A few racist incidents by fraternities doesn't make up a larger problem. The thing that the left is talking about is "cultural appropriation." This would be for example if a fraternity threw a Cinco De Mayo party and everyone wore sombreros and ponchos. I don't see the problem here. If I were Mexican, I'd be saying gracias for these people celebrating my culture. You know, the only people that are actually getting offended over these things are white liberals. Secondly, they say that all fraternities do is party and drink. Fraternities do drink and party and have social events, but when you have fraternity members graduating at a 20% higher rate than the rest of campus and fundraising over 20 million dollars every year for philanthropy, you know that they are doing a lot more than just partying. And in terms of fraternities hazing people, there is no one who is taking a stronger stance against hazing than Greek life. And thirdly they say fraternity brothers are rapists. There are times on college campuses where these disgusting and inexcusable acts do happen, but it's a lot less than the media would have you believe. the myth that 1/5 of women have been sexually assaulted on a college campus has been debunked and disproven multiple times; and college girls aren't that naive. Why would they go to a fraternity party if they thought that they were going to get raped? And what's even more crazy is that the left is trying to tell fraternities they need to let women in, when they were just telling these same guys that they're a bunch of rapists? It makes no sense! Honestly I think a lot of the people complaining now about Greek life are the ones who just couldn't get into the parties in college. Fraternities have been a tradition in America since this country's founding A significant amount of U.S. Presidents and Vice Presidents were in fraternities, as well as 85% of Fortune 500 executives were in fraternities. Fraternities teach you leadership, they teach you time management, and they teach you how to work well with other people; and millennials are so entitled and they don't take responsibility for anything. This is why they hate fraternities because they don't want to put in the work to get in one Fraternities do great work on their campuses and in their communities and, its a shame to see the mainstream media and the radical left trying to shut them down. Guys, I hope you enjoyed this video! Let me know down below what you think. And if you are or were in a fraternity or a sorority, let me know which one down below. It's been Will Witt with PragerU See you next time!
You've heard about the black card, right? No - not the one from Visa or American Express. This one is much more valuable. There are entire organizations that have been built upon it. And individuals that have used it to acquire both wealth and influence. If this sounds like something you might wish to own, you should know that there is only one way you can get your hands on it: you have to be born with black skin. That's the only requirement. Really. You can be poor, middle class, or rich - it doesn't matter. The black card will still confer upon you an entire history of oppression, even if you've never been oppressed. Flash the black card, and most white people will cower. Play the black card expertly, and you can win awards, make millions - all the while claiming that the people who got you there somehow hate you. With a black card, you can sell books full of indecipherable prose. Because with a card that powerful, who cares if your words make any sense? You can call yourself a civil rights leader and shake down multinational corporations, or you can torch your own neighborhood because you didn't like the outcome of a grand jury verdict. Ironically, the people you might think have the most legitimate claim to the black card refuse to use it. Take my grandfather, for instance: He raised me from the time I was 9 years old. Born in 1941 in rural North Carolina, he started working at age five, laying out tobacco to dry on a sharecropping farm. Jim Crow, separate drinking fountains, and the KKK were ever-present realities. He was 17 when he married my grandmother. He made a living cleaning homes and office buildings until he saved up enough money to open his own cleaning business. The thing is, he never played any card. Nor did my grandmother. If they had problems, they didn't blame anybody. They just fixed them. And they raised me to do the same. Chores were a requirement in their household. So was reading the Bible every morning before school. I didn't like the Bible readings, and I hated the chores. But I realize now that these small acts of discipline, although sometimes stifling, had a strong, positive impact on my character. I was a first-generation college student. This was supposed to be the ticket to prosperity. But it wasn't. I left college with a mountain of debt and no practical skills. I had just $80 dollars in my bank account and very few prospects. I could have given up. I could have dug deep into my history and declared myself a natural product of ancestral oppression. I could have played the black card and absolved myself of all responsibility for my own stupid decisions. Except, I didn't. Because it would have destroyed my grandfather's legacy. I am proud that he had the fortitude to turn nothing into something; and I have no intention of reversing that something back into a nothing. My attitude comes with a price, however. Because if you are born black and you don't accept your natural status as a victim, then the validity of your blackness is immediately called into question. Well, so be it. If believing in myself, if accepting the responsibility for my failures somehow disqualifies me from owning an imaginary card, then let me be the first to declare that I don't want one. I also don't want Cornel West, Al Sharpton or insert-anyone-else who uses their skin color to game the system as a role model. I already have my grandfather. If there is one thing that my family history has taught me, it's that I do not need a black card - or an imaginary anything - to make something of myself. For the record, my grandfather, now retired, lives in a home that he and my grandmother built on a plot of land they purchased in North Carolina - the very same sharecropping farm that he worked on as a small child. His story is unique. His story is beautiful. Because it's American. And that's the only card I've ever been interested in playing. I'm Candace Owens for Prager University.
What's up guys this is Will Witt with Prager U today we're at Echo Park Lake and we're gonna be asking people if they're proud to be an American. What is your favorite thing about America? the women Sam are you proud to be an American especially? Are you proud to be an American? At the moment no, why not? Donald Trump I wouldn't say I have a lot of pride. No, I don't are you proud to be American? Yes, definitely. I was I was the first person my family to be born in the United States So you think patriotism is a good thing. No Why not? creates division it's like religion everyone saw the American dream of freedom and Liberty and doing it what you want to but like when you look at the news and you see that There are plenty of people who are restricted of those freedoms It makes you upset about what you've been sold and it seems like kind of a lie What do you think is the worst part of America? Boston what's caused the downfall in America? Personally Capitalism capitalism capitalism putting the buck before the person America in a way is the land of selfishness to the Extreme you think white people have an advantage in this country. Oh for sure. Where do you see the direction of the country heading now? More towards third-world country more violent starting to be more and more impacted by Economic disparity and climate change I think Incorporating more diversity in the White House and in decision making could be a step forward Involving minority decisions Overall just like painting a glaze of liberland liberal 'no Sauveur every decision that's being made pretty much Feel like we need like a black lesbian woman president. Yeah, I would totally agree the sooner they can get rid of Donald Trump the better the future is gonna be
The civilization born of Judeo-Christian values, ancient Greek philosophy and the discoveries of the Enlightenment is staring at the abyss, brought there by its own hand. To put it starkly: Europe is committing suicide. How did this happen? It's a complicated story, but there are two major causes. The first is the mass movement of peoples into Europe. This has been going on steadily since the end of World War II but sped up massively in the migration crisis of 2015, when more than a million migrants poured into Europe from the Middle East, North Africa and East Asia. The second, and equally significant, is that Europe lost faith in itself - its beliefs, its traditions and even its very legitimacy. Let's take a closer look at both causes. For decades, Europe encouraged people - mostly from the Middle East and North Africa - to come as temporary workers. Nobody expected them to stay. Yet they did. And nobody asked them to leave, even those who came illegally. As one British immigration minister put it in 1999, Removal takes too long, and it's emotional. And, of course, why would they leave? The economic opportunities were far greater in Europe than from where they came. And if the work dried up, there were generous welfare benefits to be had. For a time, immigrants were allowed - even encouraged, thanks to the European commitment to multiculturalism - to pursue whatever culture they wanted. But that didn't work out well. The leaders of Britain, France and Germany admitted as much in 2011, when David Cameron, Nicholas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel dramatically announced that multiculturalism had failed. So, the immigrants were then asked to assimilate and embrace Western values. If that happened, European governments reasoned, all the financial costs, even the occasional acts of terrorism, could be overlooked. But it never happened. And immigration just increased. During 2015, Germany and Sweden added 2% to their populations in a single year. By 2017, the most popular boys name in United Kingdom was Muhammad. So, why did European leaders decide Europe could take in anyone in the world, whether fleeing war or simply seeking a better life, no matter how different - or even opposed - their values were to European values? The one-word answer to this question is guilt. Aren't these refugees, the thinking goes, fleeing the consequences of European imperialism? Didn't we mercilessly exploit these unfortunate people in their home countries? Aren't we the cause of their misery? Accepting them into Europe is meant to be a wiping-away of this guilt. This is especially true of Germany. In allowing one and a half million people into her country in 2015, Angela Merkel was, in effect, proclaiming to the world that Germany, the great aggressor of the twentieth century, the architect of the Holocaust, would be the humanitarian superpower of the twenty-first. A noble sentiment, perhaps, but who pays the price? The ordinary citizens of Europe, who have seen crime and terrorism increase exponentially. Their fears and frustrations have been largely ignored - or worse. In October 2015, the German government designated that 800 newly arrived immigrants were to be housed in the German town of Kassel. Concerned residents had a meeting to ask questions of their representatives. As a video recording shows, the citizens were calm and polite. Then, at a certain point, their district president informs them that the refugees are coming regardless of their objections and anyone who does not agree with the policy is free to leave Germany. This official attitude - if there is a problem, it's not with the refugees, but with the citizens - reflects the sense of what I call tiredness - a feeling among the elite class that the European story has played out: that we have tried religion and all imaginable forms of politics, and that each has, one after another, led us to disaster. We taint every idea we touch, so who's to say that the world wouldn't be better off without us? Of course, only people who have no idea how lucky they are could take this view. Ironically, no one knows this better than those refugees who truly did assimilate and who defend Western values. Extraordinary people, like Somali-born Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who left the Netherlands because she believed in the principles of the Enlightenment more than the Dutch did. Or Hamed Abdel-Samad in Germany, whose life is threatened by fellow immigrants because he defends European values. This is the stuff of suicide, the self-annihilation of a culture. It is possible that ordinary Europeans will join their leaders in this pact. But recent opinion polls suggest that they have no intention of doing so. How they act on that intention will be the great story of the years ahead. Are we about to witness the end of Europe, or its re-birth? I'm Douglas Murray, author of The Strange Death of Europe, for Prager University.
What's up guys this is Will Witt with PragerU and today we're gonna be asking people about immigration. We're on Santa Monica Pier should be a lot of fun. Should we build a border wall? No. God no, are you kidding me? Should we build a border wall? No! Why not? My husband's Mexican. So? Should we build a border wall? I I wouldn't say I would say no. Why not? Because I feel like all races are equal. What is building a border wall have to do with race? Absolutely nothing. Should we build a border wall? I wouldn't agree - no. Why not? It's America it's the land of the immigrants. Should we build a border wall? Absolutely not. Why not? This is not what this country was founded upon. You know we're a free land. What else should we do to stop illegal immigration in this country? I think we should shift our immigration policy so that it wouldn't be illegal for so many of these people to be here. This is America man. This is for this is for everyone. It's not it's not for one or jackass or a multiple multitude of jackasses to make to say whether we should or shouldn't. Do you think coming into this country illegally is a good thing? Probably not. That's just my personal opinion. So then we should stop it? Yeah With a wall? I would (stammers) I don't know what to day on that one. Do you think countries should have their own sovereignty? This is getting so deep. I'm just trying to get a milkshake. I'm not giving you a milkshake
I want to tell you about an American Original, a man who saw into the future and made it a reality. He isn't the only one to do this. There were American Originals before him - Benjamin Franklin, the Wright Brothers, John D. Rockefeller - and there are American Originals in our time, like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, Elon Musk. But in the middle of the twentieth century, there was no better example than Walt Disney. Fifty years after his death, his name still stands atop a global empire. Raised on a small family farm in Missouri, Walt Disney arrived in Hollywood in 1923 with little more than a suitcase and a pencil. But he had something else. An idea - an idea to explore humanity's foibles through cartoon animals. Now, I know it sounds obvious now, but only because we live in the world that he helped create. At first, Disney, like most entrepreneurs, did everything himself - he wrote, produced, directed, and animated. And animation is a painstakingly, time-intensive task. In the early days, it would take hundreds, if not thousands, of separate drawings to create a moving cartoon. But hard work was never really a problem for Walt Disney. Living on baked beans, and renting a one-room office for $5 a month, he believed he was on to something - and nobody could convince him otherwise. And Disney would need every bit of that conviction. Now, though the barriers to entry in Hollywood in the 1920s were low, the competition was cut-throat. But a charming rodent and the coming of sound allowed him to break through. Steamboat Willie, in 1928, starring an early version of a whistling Mickey Mouse, confirmed Disney's belief that there was an audience - a very large audience - for what he wanted to produce. By 1933, Mickey was the biggest star in the world. And in that year alone, a cartoon mouse received 800,000 pieces of fan mail. Within a decade, Disney had transformed his one-person operation into a major studio employing a thousand animators. But Disney was a restless personality; he was easily dissatisfied with his own success. And he wanted to make a full-length animated feature. It couldn't be good. It had to be great. It couldn't be in black and white. It had to be in color. And it couldn't just be in color. It had to be art in motion. It would be very expensive far beyond what he had ever spent on a single project. But money didn't really interest him. It was only a means to an end. That end? Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Three years in the making, it was finally released in 1937. And it was an instant and phenomenal success - worth every dime spent, every heartache he had endured. Disney followed it with one artistic triumph after another: Pinocchio, Fantasia, Dumbo, Bambi. But by the late forties, Disney's creative restlessness kicked in again. This time he had a new vision. He wanted to create a new kind of entertainment experience. Not 2D, but a 3D world. He called it a theme park. And, typically for Walt, it would be very, very expensive. Where was he going to get the money? Disney had a plan. He would trade his known quantity - his ability to engage an audience, for an unknown quantity - this crazy theme park idea. He approached the three television networks, NBC, CBS and ABC, with this proposal: He'd create a live-action TV show and in exchange they would give him the money to build this theme park. Well, CBS turned him down - it was too risky. NBC couldn't make up their own mind. But ABC, the youngest and the least successful of the three networks, desperately needed a hit. They said, Yes, please. So, with ABC's money, Disney built his park. Disneyland soon became another iconic Disney creation, the fantasy destination of every child on earth. And that's as true today as it was when it opened in 1955. Men like Disney are rare, but far less so in America. Why? Well, because traditionally, Americans, unlike other people in other countries, don't rely on the government to get things done. And, ideally, the government stays out of their way. Americans instead rely on their own ingenuity. In America, the only limit to your ambition is your own imagination. And if we want more American originals like Walt Disney, let's hope we keep it that way. I'm Glenn Beck for Prager University.
For a hundred and five years The Boy Scouts have stood with their values and stood with their morals, but are now caving to the radical politically correct leftist agenda What's up guys This is Will Witt with PragerU and the Boy Scouts are officially changing their name to just the scouts coming 2019 as an Eagle Scout myself I find this to be a terrible change that the Boy Scouts are making when you add girls into the equation of Boy Scouts You are taking away everything that the program is about being a part of the Boy Scouts is about developing yourself from a boy into a man Through other male role models that are there within the troop all of the merit badges all of the camping I mean everything about the Boy Scouts is tailored to being about boys. I mean it's called Boy Scouts It's in the name boys cannot be boys when girls are around. I'm sorry I don't know if that's sexist or whatever, but it's just true when you have boys who are surrounded by girls They are more worried about what the girls are thinking about them, then actually Male activities and becoming a man if girls want to be a part of Boy Scouts And they can just join the Girl Scouts, and if that program is not good enough for them I'm sorry But it's not the Boy Scouts problem to fix your Program or allow you into the Boy Scouts program because you don't like what you already have the girls can create a new program That's more suited to what they actually want to do. They don't have to hijack us I'm sure that the Girl Scouts aren't about to let boys in it's just crazy to think that something that has been so consistent in America for the last hundred years Is now being torn apart by the progressive left guys if you care about what's happening with the Boy Scouts right now What's happening in America leave a like on this video and share a comment on this and let us know what you think about What's happening with the Boy Scouts today? Thank you everyone for watching? This is will witt with PraegerU, see you next time
What's up guys this is Will Witt with Prager U today, we're at Venice Beach here in California We're gonna be asking women what they look for most in a man. It should be fun What do you look for most in a man? Conservative and Christian those are my two top things Right here What do you guys look for most in a man? I look for a woman in a man Wow What do you look for most in a man? I look for a man who is spiritually sound Has a relationship with Christ I think respect is my number one thing A lot of men these days don't know how to treat a woman You know with respect and just with kindness. What do you look for in a man? Tall, dark, and handsome What about 5 foot 8, kind of dark, and very handsome? Do you want masculinity in a man? Um I think that's necessary a woman needs to feel like she's protected. What do you think about masculinity in a man? Is that a good thing? Yeah, I like a guy that can grow a beard. Do you like weak-willed men? No There's a lot of those running around these days, huh? Yeah it's 2018, it's about all of them Do you want a weak man? Soyboy? I don't know I mean I want somebody strong You want men to hold up doors open for you and things like that? Yeah, absolutely Would you want a man to like hold doors open for you and be chivalrous? Yeah, that's nice Is chivalry dead? You love boys? Yeah, oh you love boys. This is a first date! Modern feminism does have an influence on chivalry just because a lot of women just want to prove that we can do it too, and I think That's somehow distorted some men's views on how they're supposed to Approach us Okay., why do you think chivalry is dying? I Guess people don't want to try anymore Guys are getting more lazy Maybe not trying as hard like they don't think they need to try Social media Is like a really big part of it. Cuz everyone's just so comfortable It's not like wow I need to go woo this lady So she like will go to dinner with me, so she lets me buy her dinner. It's like a DMR and you're like you're hot I'm gonna post a bikini pic someone's gonna DME like let's hang out like it's just gross Am I too feminine for you? You are not Good. Okay good
What's in a word? Why does it matter whether we call someone who breaks the law to enter the country an "illegal alien" or a "undocumented immigrant"? What's the difference between a Christmas tree and a "holiday tree?" It's just semantics, right? Yes...and no. It is just semantics, but "semantics" means the meaning of words. Words exist so that we might discriminate one thing from another. Without words we have chaos. And it starts with the first words; a baby says mama to distinguish mommy from daddy. Words shape how we think; they color how we view the world. No one understands this better than the Left. They are the masters of words. Because they know that words matter. The Left has a special gift for euphemisms soft words selected to sugarcoat harsh realities so as to make those harsh realities easier for us to swallow. But these soft words are insidious. Their sole purpose is to deceive. Race discrimination in hiring and college admissions is refashioned as the much nicer sounding "affirmative action." Who would ever oppose an affirmative action? Global warming, which can be measured and challenged, has morphed into "climate change," which means essentially nothing because the climate is always changing. When Barack Obama became president, George Bush's war in Afghanistan suddenly transformed into the far less ominous and threatening "overseas contingency operation." That's one way to try to end a war. Just rename it. The examples are endless. There's a new euphemism every week. In the make-believe world of leftist language, young criminals have become "justice-involved youth." Mandates and taxes are "individual shared responsibility payments." Government spending becomes an "investment." Wanting to keep more of your hard-earned money becomes "greed"; taking more of someone else's money is them "paying their fair share." Opposing a Democrat in the White House is "obstruction." Opposing a Republican in the White House, "resistance"! In the name of "diversity" the left enforces intellectual conformity. It censors opposing views in the name of "tolerance." And it labels all non-left views "hate speech." Consider the ongoing battle over pronouns whether to call a man who thinks he's a woman "he" or "she." Very few people in the country suffer from gender confusion, and we should have compassion for those who do, but the Left has invested countless funds, time, and energy to make everyone refer to some men as she and some women as he. Why? Is it because the Left is so compassionate? Or is it more likely because so much of the Left's cultural agenda is about blurring, even denying, the natural distinctions between men and women? Sometimes it's just an adjective that can change or even negate the entire meaning of the word it describes. Take "social justice." Justice means getting what you deserve without favor. "Social justice" means getting what you don't deserve because you are favored. Here's one we hear a lot these days. "My truth." Truth is reality regardless of any individual's feelings or perceptions. "My truth" is how I perceive things regardless of how they really are. And how about "Same-sex marriage." Let's not get into the politics; let's just look at the language. Throughout history, in every culture, marriage has been the union of husbands men, and wives women. "Same-sex marriage" is the union of men with men or women with women, but it is most certainly not the union of husbands and wives. Once the phrase "same-sex" was placed before the word marriage - that is, once the definition of marriage changed, the debate changed. It became about "marriage equality." It was suddenly an act of bigotry to limit marriage to husbands and wives. All this manipulation of language has paid off for the left: because whoever controls the words controls the culture. Don't believe me? Just try using plain language instead of the Left's politically correct jargon. But be careful. Use "the wrong words" and you might lose your job, your home and your reputation. The culture war is largely a war of words. Right now, the Left is winning. You can see the consequences everywhere: in politics, in education, in media. It's time to fight back. We should not cede another syllable. What's in a word? Everything. I'm Michael Knowles, host of the Michael Knowles Show, for Prager University.
How did we get here? I mean, literally. Not just you and me, but the whole shebang. How is any kind of life possible? The universe is a hostile place; solar flares, cosmic rays, asteroids flying about. The odds against our existence are truly astronomical. Take it from me, I'm an astrophysicist. My job is to look out into space, at stars and galaxies, trying to answer these basic how-did-the-universe-come-to-be questions. Well, those who have a religious faith have an answer: God. The earth's distance from the sun, the size of the atom, and a thousand other things large and small that allow us to live and to breathe and to think all seem perfectly tuned for our existence. To many, this design suggests a designer. But from a purely scientific point of view, the faithful have a big problem: They can offer no indisputable proof for this belief. Because of the lack of hard evidence, it's probably not surprising that over 70% of the members of the National Academy of Sciences declare themselves to be atheists. But they have a big problem, too. Absent a creator, how do they account for the existence of the universe, of planet earth, of human consciousness? How do they account for the existence of anything? Well, it turns out they have an answer. And it's become all the rage in scientific circles. It's called the multiverse, and according to many scientists, our universe isn't the whole ball game; far from it. These scientists argue that there's are an awful lot of universes out there, not just one or two, but an infinite number of them. Let me explain: 13.8 billion years ago, there was a Big Bang - from something unimaginably small (we don't know exactly what), the universe exploded into existence. How did it happen? Why did it happen? Doesn't matter. Cause it happened. Immediately after the Big Bang, the universe underwent a rapid expansion. Think of a gush of bubbles exploding from a seriously shaken soda can just after it's popped open. Cosmologists call this the Theory of Inflation. As the universe inflates and expands - the bubble universes grow and separate to become their own distinct entities, each with their own unique properties. In other words, new universes are spawned and not just a handful an infinite number of them. Some of these universes would be too cold for life, and some too hot. But, with an infinite number, surely one is bound to get it just right. In short, you and I are just an accident that, given enough universes, was inevitable. But wait, there's more. Because there are so many universes, it's very likely, according to the multiverse scenario, that everything that could possibly happen does happen in one universe or another. That girlfriend who broke up with you? You're married to her in another universe. Does this sound a bit far-fetched? A little science fictiony? Well, not to Nobel Prize-winning scientists like Steven Weinberg or the famed cosmologist Stephen Hawking, as well as a myriad of others who whole-heartedly endorse it. But here's what's really surprising. They endorse it knowing there's not a single shred of hard scientific evidence that supports it. And how can there be? There's no way we can access another universe. In short, a vast number of the world's most eminent scientists believe in something that hasn't been, and in all likelihood, will never be proven. How does that sound to you? Probably the same way it sounds to the distinguished physicist Paul Davies: Invoking an infinity of unseen universes to explain the unusual features of the one we do see is just as [made up] as invoking an unseen Creator. The multiverse theory may be dressed up in scientific language, but in essence it requires the same leap of faith. Or, as GK Chesterton quipped: When men stop believing in God they don't believe in nothing, they believe in anything. For multiverse believers, this is literally true: the same scientists who reject God's existence due to lack of evidence pin their hopes on a theory so all-inclusive and vague it can never be refuted. Those who believe God created the universe are intellectually honest enough to admit that they do so on the basis of faith. But those who believe in the multiverse are also keeping the faith. They just don't admit it. So let me ask you, who's taking the bigger leap? I'm Brian Keating, Professor of Physics at the University of California, San Diego, for Prager University
A lot has happened to you in that in that short amount of time since the shooting happened How how was everything going for you? Uh, I mean, there's no really way to properly recover, but time will heal. That's the only proper Medication for it in my opinion yeah, you know I'm just still trying to like deal with reality here But the only proper solution to this is just fighting for a change and making sure you get legislation passed I'm not gonna lose sight of that. Yeah, honestly. I feel like with all the you know hysteria That's happened after this you know horrible tragedy and what's happened with a lot of your classmates You know a lot of what has actually happened during that time kind of got lost could you run us through You know part of what happened that day, and you know if you feel comfortable with it. Just kind of what happened sure, so I was in my fourth period class and the fire alarm bell rang and Previously in the day we had a fire alarm drill so I didn't think it was big deal I thought it was just someone just accidentally pulled the alarm, so I was walking out slowly. I din't think it was big deal I was like could I ask my teacher if I could stay inside He said no he had leave so the second So I walk out so I was walking outside to the door about to reach the door And then the announcements vice-principal goes and he says everyone must evacuate immediately so we rush outside And outside of here to Pop's now I didn't realize what was going on at that time, so I started slowly walking back to my classroom apparently What happened was, Exactly when I was outside in the hallway there was an announcement in the speakers and it told every was an active shooter on campus now the thing is that when it found in the hallway I wasn't able to hear because there's no speaker's setup and even more so after all this occurred They still don't add speaker systems to the hallway outside, which which really angered me because look when I'm looking at it We have an issue at our school system that could easily be solved and it's not being solved So then I ran back inside to my classroom Girls were everyone was to stare and then he closed the door on me I talked to him after the end of the reason was he was just following procedure I mean I understood what he did and then girls were crying in the cursing for him to open the door He wouldn't, so we quickly ran into another room A teacher close by we hid there And then we had no idea what was going on so I just decided the best thing was to sit in the closet So we piled in we stuffed everyone to the closet as many people as possible And we just sat there and we got updates for about two hours until SWAT took us at about 4:40 We then walked outside we had to put our hands on each other's backs and then walk in a single-file line I had to leave all my stuff at school I was only able to take my phone, and then I just walked over to the nearby park and uh My dad came to pick me up Geez man again, I can't even begin to imagine how they must have found so sorry that all that had to happen You know it's not that it's just that what angers me more Is that was an issue of the school system where I wasn't able to understand what was going on so it easily could have... What even more so what I was talking to a close friend of mine Patrick Petty He told me when the shooter came on campus. He came from like the front gates On the right of the front gate so that it honestly could have been one of those Shot and injured or killed had the shooter decided to take a left versus a right Do you know what even more is when there was a shooter on campus in the announcement was made? It was a failure of the system Because there was no speakers outside and even more so no one is solving the issue now even there's all this media attention the small things that can actually save A life and that are actually doable by the school system, which don't need any legislation aren't being done Well you were at the school So you know what happened during the shooting what else could have been done to stop the shooting you think Well, I mean first of all even before Someone comes on campus is preparing to make an attack there are warning signs and every single shooting the shooter always gives himself away before It occurs and this one. He was on he was on YouTube it was an Instagram and Even more so the police and the school and the FBI and the Child Protective Services Knew about this and they did absolutely nothing for one very specific reason because they're getting money from the federal government for how clean their Record looks like that's what it comes down to the less people they arrest the cleaner the record is the more money They get federally and that's what the issue is the police aren't doing their job because they're incentivized Not to and even more so when someone arrived on campus we had the proper security, okay And seemingly the proper security to stop them, but they didn't do anything. They didnt do absolutely anything and and I talked to Andrew Pollock, and I cried after he told me this he told me that his daughter would have been safe if If if the armed guard went to the third floor because what happened was The only reason the shooting stopped was because Nick's gun jammed that was the only reason and That had the police actually gone upstairs and stopped the shooter his daughter would have been safe because she was locked outside of a classroom So had the police done their job after the first seconds of the confusion his daughter would have been alive and so would five others Now will we have oh, go ahead all right? Well now what I was gonna say is now that we have you know we have this March for our lives and everything I actually Did a video of that shoot? Interviewing the students and all the other people who are there and you know a lot of these things they are not including you on They don't invite you to speak they don't put you on the time cover Why do you think that is well look that's irrelevant forget about me. What about Patrick Petty who lost his sister That's that's truly the heartbreaking thing here. They they forcibly ignored, okay? I'm gonna say forcibly ignored Patrick Petty's request to speak on the basis that he has some pro-second amendment stances which is absolutely disgusting Forget about me. I understand that they they didn't was reach out to me and asked me that's ok That's understandable in some respect but to not allow The brother of a victim to speak is absolutely disgusting and then and then the reasoning was that from Hunter Pollock Who's older than 18 whose sister was shot was killed, Meadow Pollock, the reasoning was that he was over than 18, which is ok? That's true. That's your guidelines. How come Patrick petty was unable to talk and look at the end of the day I Understand why I'm being excluded But the people who truly have who should be given all the spotlight aren't being And that's what's yeah. Well. We know the agenda you know that they're pushing the left-wing agenda with that. I'm uh I'm still waiting for your debate with David Hogg, when is that gonna happen? Whenever he wants to man and everyone wants to debate me You know is we know it was actually pretty interesting, so we're certainly today We went to the auditorium to sign up AP forums, and the person was supposed to be sitting next to me was kasky But he wasn't there that day have been really fun. Yeah, well. This is what I was saying I was talking with some other people before this you know I thought it'd be interesting to ask you if you were to you know do you see David Hogg and some of these other people on campus when you're now I mean I've seen some of the the less prominent members on campus definitely a bit I've spoken to Alphonso I Tried to talk to him and explain to him Why an assault rifle ban is this moronic, and it simply won't work um I see them I haven't seen I don't think I've seen Hogg Kasky or Emma on campus, yeah But what I do get is a lot of stare down which is fun. Yeah, I can only imagine yeah So I know that these other students. They're planning you know a lot of other things Trying to get students. You know to protest guns get more gun control Things like that and we were talking about this before on Friday you're gonna be doing something on Facebook right oh, yeah It's gonna be huge. Yeah, what is that about? so basically here's what it is and For kids who don't want to walk out Here's the reason why not to walk out the walk out will accomplish absolutely nothing So here's what we did to commemorate the 19th anniversary of the Columbine High School shooting Here's what we did we made a live stream some of the most prominent members to discuss ways to save lives Without infringing on the Second Amendment and discuss the importance of mental health It truly comes down to what can we solve definitively today? And how do we educate the public on that I can tell you I got Sebastian Gorka to speak Charlie Kirk to speak and Easter Moochie to speak so many prominent figures The end goal here is not to push a partisan solution is to push solutions that actually work whether they're Democrat or Republican I mean And to make sure we don't infringe in the Second Amendment because at the end of the day the Second Amendment is what protects Every other amendment, and it starts by taking away the rights of individual gun owners, and I think informing the public is Extremely important to where a walk at will accomplish absolutely nothing, but gain clicks for CNN and MSNBC Yeah, I mean you have hashtag you had hashtag the repeal second trending on Twitter I mean, that's just insane to me that these people are actually pushing for that that people want to desecrate the Constitution I mean so I think you know doing that The Constitution is one of the mostost beautiful literary it's one of the beautiful most beautiful legislative pieces. They don't understand it They've lost that they've lost that the left has completely lost that Sometimes come with like not having respect for your elders and viewing elders as ignorant I mean the founding fathers has such a grasp perspective on the future of America that they were able to predict What would possibly occur mm-hmm? Yeah well people nowadays have lost traditional values at the March for our lives. I mean you saw that there So yeah, it's crazy. What's going on? I'm just hoping that we can you know help people stop being so misinformed because in my opinion I think it's really just misinformation that these people are getting it's not even their fault. It's just you know the main media and Their professors at schools and high school as well Wanna hear something about that? yeah, tell me. That tired the entire youth Ideology is from like the left stems from from ignorance It's truly that because I truly think that if you look into the facts and statistics And all points for the conservative point of view I was speaking with all Was a young and rising teen very prominent? And I mean I explained to him the stance of abortion and and in the beginning I mean It's stemmed from ignorance, but after a while if there's anything to the fact. He like yo Kyle wow I didn't I didn't actually Wow, you're right this Some there's some issues with abortion. I mean some sometimes at some stages shouldn't be legal I I mean what I did was I basically shifted his perspective by showing him reality in facts and I think that's one of the greatest things in even more so today in history class we were talking about I believe elections and someone brought up How DC right now the they lowered the age to vote to 16 and to me It was somewhat concerning when this occurred was because a lot of the youth they're very intelligent But they're ignorant and they don't apply themselves you know I mean I sure I have faith I have faith in the youth. I think that I really do, but I at the end of the day, It's just a lot of it a lot of liberal perspectives comes from peer pressure And I truly believe that if you look at the facts they all point for the conservative point of view specifically I mean 100 percent in the gun control debate all the facts are entirely On the second amendment side. Oh, yeah. They are I mean conservatives are just playing catch-up at this point You know where we have to basically bring people back from being misinformed for so long. It's not these people's faults You know I talked to a lot of people it's not that they Disagree with conservative ideas they've just they've literally never even heard one. They didn't even know that there were other stances that you could take And I think that you're doing great work You know helping to inform people you know really being strong with all the other students on your campus being so against the Second Amendment So we want to thank you Kyle for joining us today and talking to us about this Yeah, thank you so much. I really appreciate it. This is Will Witt with Prager U. Thank you everybody for watching
What's up guys, Will Witt here from PragerU today, we are at Washington Square Park in New York City We're gonna be asking people if they know any Republicans should be a lot of fun. Do you guys have any Republican friends? Do you guys have any Republican friends No thank God do you guys have any Republican friends no no, I like the Probably not do you have any Republican friends? No why not I wouldn't be friends with someone who is Republican. Why is that? Extremism do you have a lot of Republican friends here in New York? No I do not Why do you think that is? I think that at least in New York City It's a much more liberal City because there's so many different diverse people that you really can't be very big Racists or big big it in or anything like that you have to be Pretty open-minded. Why do you think you don't know any Trump supporters in? New York open-minded Boy just like minding their own business, I don't know less wanting to regulate everything live their life Wouldn't the regulation be from a Democratic Party? I don't know. I honestly don't know Do you guys have any Republican friends? My mother is why do you think you don't have any Republican friends. I don't tolerate it Don't want to are you a Republican? I'll take that as a yes. You wouldn't be my friend Ouch, I'm like I've literally I'm not I'm not Republican dude. Do you guys have any Republican friends? No we don't? Why do you think you don't have any Republican friends because we're done. Will you? So you guys would have friends who are a Republican no no
For over 39 years, I was a police officer in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For 15 of those years, I was the Sheriff of Milwaukee County. I've done everything you can do as cop - from walking the beat, to investigating murder, to running the agency. I've met a lot of cops - of every race, ethnicity and background. Here's what I can tell you: Cops are not perfect. That's not a news flash. But this might be: They don't have to be perfect. They have to be excellent. And most officers reach excellence every single day, and often under very difficult circumstances - circumstances you can't imagine, and wouldn't want to if you could. Perfection is an unattainable goal. Cops are ordinary human beings. Like everyone else - lawyers, surgeons and baseball players - they make mistakes. But no profession works harder to correct its mistakes. You can mark social progress by the improvements made by police departments over the last 50 years. Today, police are more professional, better educated, and better trained than at any time in their history. You wouldn't know it, though, if you listened to self-serving, self-righteous politicians and activists. In their version of history, the police are the villains of the story, not its heroes. Like everything else this crowd does, they've got it all backwards. The police aren't the problem. The politicians and activists are. The police didn't create the failed urban policies that have locked people into generational poverty. The police aren't responsible for fatherless homes, failing schools, and bad lifestyle choices. And they sure as hell aren't responsible for the lack of respect shown to police officers. It is this lack of respect for authority, fostered over decades by the progressive left and its fear-the-police narrative, that has led to the needless deaths of so many young black men. When Officer Darren Wilson told Michael Brown to get out of the middle of the street in Ferguson, Missouri, did Brown comply? No. When officers in Baltimore told Freddie Gray to stop resisting arrest, did he comply? No. When officers in New York City told Eric Garner to stop resisting arrest, did he comply? No. Here's a useful tip - if you want avoid a bad outcome with a police officer, follow this simple rule: When a cop gives you a lawful command, obey it - even if you disagree. Whatever problem you are experiencing is not going to be settled on the street. People with complaints need to use the process established for that purpose. Though cops don't have the final say, they do in that moment. How you react can be a matter of life or death. But the idea that a law-abiding citizen has to fear the police is a terrible and destructive lie. Let's get some perspective. In 2014, 990 people were killed in police use-of-force incidents. Does that sound like a lot? Did you know that, according to a Johns Hopkins study, that same year, medical errors killed 250,000 people? Yet activists aren't marching in the streets, demanding that the medical profession be reformed. Why not? Why is it that the people who protect you from the bad guys - and I've seen these bad guys close up - are the subject of distrust and anger? Why is it that groups like Black Lives Matter - I call them Black Lies Matter because it's based on the falsehood that police represent a danger to black people - are celebrated by the media and politicians? All this is taking its toll on cops and, even more tragically, on the law-abiding citizens in the neighborhoods that most need a strong police presence. The murder rates in these neighborhoods are going up because lawful, aggressive policing is going down. Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute has explained why. She calls it The Ferguson Effect. And it's real. It's also common sense. Why, police officers reason, put your career at risk, if 30 seconds of smartphone video taken out of context can destroy it? Here's the truth: Police aren't afraid of walking the streets or being shot by random criminals. They're afraid of being involved in an incident that would label them forever as trigger-happy racists. Are there bad cops? I know first-hand that there are - I've had to fire them. But the overwhelming majority are good, decent men and women, concerned about the law-abiding citizens in the communities they serve and are willing to put their lives on the line to protect them. Those who try to convince you, either out of ignorance or out of some ideological agenda, that the police are the enemy - those are the people you should fear. Run from them. Not the cops. I'm Sheriff David Clarke for Prager University.
Controversy has been raging across our country as people tear down objectionable monuments and change the names of institutions that connote evil. I'm Ami Horowitz and I'm here on the campus of George Washington University named after our first president and also a slave owner. I wonder if students here think we should keep the name or change it? Do you think it's time for us to consider changing the name of the University? Ooh, I don't know that I have an opinion. This question's putting me in a fix. I can't decide. Do you think we should consider changing the name of the University? Um, I think it's definitely worth having a discussion about it. Gosh that's really a hard question there's so much that goes into the name of an institution. I don't think I can answer that, but I'd say I'd like to hear more opinions. Personally, I would change the name. I think that it should be changed. I think that recognition is super important and I think that... Ami: Recognition of ? recognition for who he was as a person. I don't agree with the slave trade, so um... so yeah. Ami: Would you change the name if you could do it? Yeah. Yeah, sure. That was 1776. It's 2018 and I think it's important that we realize and reupholster the systems that built us. Sure, I think we should change the name. I would probably change the name, but I would do so universally. Like if I were to change the name of GW, then I would advocate that things named after slave holders in general should be changed. We've sort of retrospectively mythologized this this concept of liberty and freedom. We just recently got rid of the Nathan Bedford Forrest statue that was in Overton Park so, I mean, just keeping in line with like... Ami: And this is kind of similar? Uh, yeah. It's not to say that he wasn't an important man back then, it's just saying that in this day and age it's not as important, I don't think. Ami: What's the first thing comes to mind when I say George Washington? I think about him owning slaves, yeah. The hypocrisy of slavery. Ami V.O.: Thank God not everybody felt this way. Ami: Do you think it's time to change the name of this University? Absolutely not. This is one of our founding fathers. If we forget Liberty; if we forget the intrinsic nature behind the founders' philosophy of liberty, then what exactly do we have? Hi. I'm Marissa Streit, CEO of Prager U. Did you know that PragerU is a non-profit? Every dollar you give on the donate link below will go directly towards marketing this video.
The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. The top one per cent of people on the planet have half the wealth. Western corporations are plundering developing countries. Capitalism is on its last legs. Really? The truth is that global inequality is tumbling. Yes, the rich are getting richer - but the poor are getting richer faster. And what's driving that process? The market. Look at the most basic measures: Literacy. Longevity. Infant mortality. Calorie intake. Height. More and more people are being lifted out of poverty. I think of the changes just in my lifetime. When I was born, in 1971, an American worker had to earn a month's salary to be able to afford a TV set. Now, it's two days. In 1971, fewer than half of girls worldwide completed at least primary education. Now, it's more than 90 percent. In 1971, a stationary car emitted more pollution than a car moving at full speed today. Go a little further back. In the seventeenth century, the most powerful man in the world was Louis XIV of France. Every night, he'd have 40 dishes prepared for his dinner, and he'd pick the one that he felt like. Think about it: A receptionist today can stop off at a store on her way home and have not only a wider choice than that king, but a fresher one and a healthier one. We all live better than Louis XIV. What has caused that miracle? Not any UN development program. Not any government aid scheme. What caused it was the market. The most rapid falls in poverty are happening in countries that are joining the global trading system. Compare growth rates in free-trading Colombia and protectionist Venezuela; or in free-trading Vietnam and protectionist Laos; or in free-trading Bangladesh and protectionist Pakistan. It's the same story every time. China after 1979, India after 1991. You remove barriers to trade. Prices fall. Your people no longer have to work every hour just to afford food and basic commodities. They have time to invent and make and buy and sell other things. The whole economy is stimulated. Poverty falls. OK, you might say, so maybe capitalism works; maybe people are better off. But isn't there a cost? Doesn't it make us more materialistic? Doesn't it make us greedier? If by greed you mean a desire for material wealth, that's part of the human condition. It's in our DNA or, if you prefer, it's in our fallen nature. Under any system - socialism, communism, fascism, absolute monarchy, theocracy - people want more stuff. The unique quality of capitalism is that it structures the incentives so that the way to succeed - the way to be greedy, if you insist on using that vocabulary - is to offer a service to the people around you. Under every other system, you get on by sucking up to those in power: commissars, or kings, or dictators. But under a free market system, you get on by offering consumers something they want. As the economist Joseph Schumpeter put it, the achievement of capitalism is not to provide more silk stockings for princesses, but to bring them within the reach of the shop girl. So, why can't we see it? Why do well-intentioned, idealistic young people oppose free trade and market liberalization, thinking that they're standing up for the poorest people on the planet, when in fact they're doing the opposite? A big part of the answer is aesthetic. As the Victorian novelist, Anthony Trollope, wrote, "Poverty, to be scenic, should be rural." I grew up in Lima, Peru which, in those days, was surrounded by shantytowns known as las barriadas. Western visitors would come, and they'd visit Machu Picchu, and then they'd ask in bewilderment why people would migrate from the Andes to the slums. Why did they swap the clean air and the mountain scenery for open sewers and traffic fumes? It's a very first world question. No Peruvian ever needed to ask why you'd leave a place with no electricity, no school, no clinic, and no jobs. Those shantytowns, those barriadas, for most of their residents, are transitional. They're busy places, humming with enterprise, and the people in them sense that they're on their way up. If we want to help those people, the best thing we can do is let them sell us their stuff. Capitalism has achieved things which earlier ages ascribed to gods and magicians. It's abolishing hunger and disease and want. It's led to an unprecedented enrichment that is the central fact of your life. The fact that you're watching this video is enough to tell me that. Now let it work its magic in the rest of the world. I'm Daniel Hannan for Prager University.
Even atheists acknowledge that the book that is most responsible for creating Western civilization is the Bible. Until very recently, that was considered quite an achievement. After all, it was Western civilization that created societies rooted in individual liberty, rooted in democracy, that affirmed the equality of all people, and which gave the world the notion of universal human rights. Of course, these unique moral ideals took centuries to be realized, and the ideals were often violated. But only the West formulated these ideals, let alone achieved them - and then spread them around the world. In the last half century, however, many of the recipients of these gifts - especially the well-educated - no longer regarded Western civilization as morally superior to any other. And as reverence for Western civilization fell, so did reverence for the source of that civilization. The Bible has not only been neglected, but reviled - as a foolish fairy tale at best, and as an immoral work at worst. This view springs not from intellectual rigor, but from intellectual laziness. People throw out all sorts of objections to the Bible as if there are no rational and moral responses to those objections. But the fact is there are rational and moral responses to all those objections. I give many of them in my book, The Rational Bible, but let me offer two here. In the biblical book of Deuteronomy, it says if someone has a rebellious son who does not obey his father and mother, his parents can take him to the elders of the city for judgment. And if the son is found guilty, the citizens are to stone him to death. Sounds pretty primitive, doesn't it? In fact, however, it was an enormous moral leap forward. This law ended - forever - parental ownership of their children, and with it the right to kill them. The brilliance of this law was that it seemed to preserve the absolute authority of parents, but in fact ended it. But, you will respond, the citizens of the city could still kill the child. Theoretically, that was true. But we have no instance of it ever happening in the history of the Jews - the people who brought the book into the world and lived by its rules. Critics of Western religion also often cite the famous biblical law, an eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, etc. as another example of an immoral biblical law. But this law - known by its Latin name, lex talionis, the law of retaliation - was another great moral advance. It was not meant to be taken literally, and it never was - for the simple reason that it's impossible to exactly duplicate bodily harm. Only a life for a life was meant literally and taken literally: there is capital punishment for premeditated murder. So, then, what did it mean? For one thing, lex talionis is the ultimate statement of human equality. Every person's eye is as precious as anyone else's. The eye of a prince is worth no more than the eye of a peasant. This was completely new in history. The Babylonian Code of Hammurabi, for example, legislated that the eye of a noble was of much greater value than the eye of a commoner. Second, the principle of an eye for an eye ensured only the guilty party was punished for his crime. In other law codes and in common practice, if you killed someone's daughter, your daughter would be killed. That was expressly prohibited in the Bible and by the "eye for an eye" code. Now the killer would be punished, not the killer's daughter. Third, lex talionis prohibited unjust revenge. In the ancient world, if a man gouged out another man's eye, the victim, if he could, would gouge out both the attacker's eyes, or kill him, or hurt his children, and so on. In contrast, eye for an eye ensured the victim receive appropriate compensation for the damages he suffered, but the punishment had to fit the crime. The next time you read or hear someone argue that the Bible is irrational or immoral, tell them how the stone-the-rebellious-son law ended parental killing of children and how the "eye for an eye" law struck a unique blow for human equality and justice. If they're intellectually honest, they'll admit that they have learned something new. I'm Dennis Prager.
Since 1965, the number of black elected officials has exploded. Between 1970 and 2012, it grew from fewer than 1,500 to more than 10,000. And, oh, yes - a black man was elected president. Twice. Conventional wisdom would suggest that all these political gains would lead to economic gains. But that has not proven to be the case. In fact, during an era of growing black political influence, blacks as a group progressed at a slower rate than whites, and the black poor actually lost ground. Why was the conventional wisdom wrong? Because it was based on the incorrect assumption that politics was the pathway to black progress. Only black politicians, so the thinking went, could properly understand and address the challenges facing black Americans. It wasn't stable families, hard work, or education that would lift blacks into the middle class; it was more black city councilmen, congressmen and senators. But the evidence, even according to liberal social scientists like Gary Orfield, indicates that there may be little relationship between the success of . . . black leaders and the opportunities of typical black families. So, while black politicians, from Tom Bradley and Marion Barry to Maxine Waters and John Conyers, achieved considerable personal success, their constituents did not. Yet this calculus - political success is a pre-requisite to a better life - remains progressive orthodoxy today. When Michael Brown was shot dead after assaulting a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014, much was made over the racial composition of the police department and city leaders. But if black representation among law enforcement and city officials is so critically important, how do you explain the rioting in Baltimore the following year after a black suspect there died in police custody? At the time, 40 percent of Baltimore's police officers were black. The Baltimore police commissioner was also black, along with the mayor and a majority of the city council. What can be said of Baltimore is also true of Cleveland, Detroit, Philadelphia, Atlanta, New Orleans and Washington, D.C., where black mayors and police chiefs and city councilmen and school superintendents have been in office for decades. But to what end? As I document in my book, False Black Power?, when blacks had little political power, they nevertheless made significant economic progress. In the 1940s and '50s, black labor-participation rates exceeded those of whites, black incomes grew much faster than white incomes, and the black poverty rate fell by 40 percentage points. Between 1940 and 1970 - that is, during the Jim Crow era, with its racist laws - and before any affirmative action, the number of blacks in middle-class professions quadrupled. In other words, racial gaps were steadily narrowing without any special treatment for blacks. And then came the War on Poverty in the mid-sixties. This was supposed to close the gap once and for all. Yet, despite billions of dollars of government assistance in the form of welfare payments, housing projects and enforced hiring programs like affirmative action, black poverty rates remained unchanged relative to white poverty rates. In fact, a strong case can be made that to the extent that a social program, however well-meaning, interferes with a group's self-development, it does more harm than good. Government policies that discourage marriage and undermine the work ethic - open-ended welfare benefits, for example - help keep poor people poor. No wonder, then, that more black politicians bringing home more government aid has done so little to improve rates of black employment, homeownership, and academic achievement. As economist Thomas Sowell explains, The relationship between political success and economic success has been more nearly inverse than direct. The history of Germans, Jews, and Italians in America support Sowell's observation. Each of these groups made significant economic gains before ever attaining significant political power. Asians are the most recent example. How many prominent Asian politicians can you name? On the other hand, the Irish - whose rise from poverty in the 19th century was especially slow - were very politically successful. Irish-run political organizations in places like Boston and Philadelphia dominated local government. In the US, the Irish had more political success than any other ethnic minority group. Yet the Irish were, according to Sowell, the slowest rising of all European immigrants to America. The black experience in America is of course different from the experience of the Irish - or any other ethnic minority - but that doesn't undermine the obvious conclusion: Human capital is far more important than political capital. And the formula for prosperity is the same across the human spectrum: Traditional values such as marriage, stable families, education and hard work are immeasurably more important than the color of your congressman - or senator, or police chief, or president. I'm Jason Riley of The Manhattan Institute for Prager University.
Summer - glorious summer! Time to dig in the sand, gulp from the hose, play at the park, and leap with joy! Unless you're a kid - in which case, find yourself a comfy sofa in a dark, quiet room and settle in. This is the season your parents are bombarded with the kind of warnings previously associated with incoming torpedoes. The basic message: Don't have fun - it's too dangerous. Remember when digging in the sand at the beach was a fun activity for young children? asks the website KidsTravelDoc. Sorry. No more. Based on recent findings, only with lots of do's and don'ts is frolicking in the sand a healthy activity. The blog's author, Karl Neumann of the American Academy of Pediatrics, lays out his own don'ts: Studies show that children playing in the sand are more likely to become ill than children merely walking on it. And the risk of illness increases with digging in the sand, being buried' in it, and digging in wet sand. Got it. Keep your kids on dry sand. No, wait - Dry sand presents problems, too. So, Dr. Neumann warns: Discourage children from lying directly on the sand. While you're at it, Walking barefooted is another don't.' Have children wear lightweight, ventilated, hard-soled footwear that covers the toes. This helps prevent stubbed toes, lacerations, puncture wounds, and burns from hot sand. Ideally, footwear should be worn for wading in the water. In fact, why take your kids to the beach at all? Better to keep them at home on a hard, nonporous surface, free of dirt and obstacles, checking frequently for venomous spiders, disease-bearing insects, and sewage. Children should also be in steel-toed work boots. Come to think of it, chain-mail wouldn't be a bad idea. But even that isn't enough. Simply keeping the kids at home doesn't ensure they're safe either, especially if they make it into the backyard. Parents Magazine warns that bees are attracted to flowers, so don't put fragrances or floral-patterned clothing on kids. Surely, you've seen swarms of bees chasing children in floral prints. The American Academy of Pediatrics suggests that if your moppets still insist on playing outside, the little daredevils at least should limit sun exposure during peak intensity hours - between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. That shouldn't put a crimp in anyone's day, should it? The Academy is afraid that kids will get too much sun. It's also afraid they'll get too little sun and end up with rickets. A related fear is that kids won't get enough water becauseeveryone is obsessed with hydration these days. It's always seemed to me that drinking when thirsty does the trick. Apparently, I was wrong. Now there's a product on the market - a water bottle with a wi-fi connection. The app allows parents to monitor how much water their child is drinking. The obsessive little gadget even knows if the kids are secretly not drinking - pouring out water to stop their parents from texting them to drink more. And an animated character on the bottle's built-in screen grows healthier and happier the more the child drinks. Let's hear it for more screen time! The wi-fi water bottle has yet another great advantage: it keeps the little ones from drinking the wrong sort of water. Google hose water and you will be drowning in stories linking the stuff to just about every illness except gout. Some study, endlessly reported, found that hose water contained PVC plastic additives, which can cause birth defects, liver toxicity, and cancer. Naturally, in these stories there is no mention of how many gallons of water a child would have to guzzle for any of these issues to ever develop. Being a kid these days is no walk in the park. But that's just as well. Yet another Parents Magazine piece warns that to keep children safe at the playground, you should walk away if you see cement, asphalt, dirt, or grass: these surfaces are linked to head injuries. So are walls, if you bang your head against them. My advice to parents is therefore short and sweet: Tell your kids they can't swim alone or get into a stranger's car. And then stop reading other safety tips and, maybe - just, maybe - your kids can have a real childhood. I'm Lenore Skenazy, President of Let Grow, for Prager University.
If one big government is bad, imagine how much worse two big governments would be. But that's what people living in Europe have had to deal with: their own nation's bloated government and the super-national government of Europe, now known as the European Union. Bureaucracy times two! How's that for a horror show? Well, actually, you've no idea. It's worse than you think. Believe me - I know, because for seventeen years, I've represented South East England as a member of the European Parliament, the EU's legislative body. I was also leader of the UK Independence Party, or UKIP, where I lead Britain's efforts to leave the European Union. To their everlasting credit, that's just what happened on June the 23rd, 2016: The United Kingdom left the European Union. The world knows it as Brexit. Brexit is a statement of national sovereignty. Don't misunderstand me: I like nations. I like borders. I like the people that live within those borders making their own laws. But I don't like it when faceless bureaucrats make laws for nations they don't even live in. But that's what they do in the European Union. Imagine a Belgian telling a Brit how much he can charge his customers - or the reverse. The EU bureaucrats do this in a myriad of different ways, all day, every day. It is a conspiracy of the elites. Who are those elites? Well, they're a bunch of self-important, overpaid, social engineers with useless college degrees who have never done a proper day's work in their lives and have no connection with ordinary, decent people. I'll take the good sense of an Italian farmer or a French baker over the arid intellectualism of an EU bureaucrat any day. And I say these things not as an anti-European; I love Europe! It's a fantastic, exciting, great continent: different peoples, languages, and cultures. But these peoples, with their languages and cultures, have effectively been hijacked by a giant, ever-expanding bureaucracy: the European Union. People will say, but isn't there a parliament, a European parliament, that represents the people of Europe? Well, yes, but this body has got no real power; it can't make its own laws. Rather, the power resides with the European Commission. They're unelected and they can't be removed, and that's how absurd the whole thing is. The European Parliament meets in Brussels. At least, that's what I thought when I was elected there. But once a month, do you know what happens? They load the contents of our offices and papers into big, plastic trunks, and they put those trunks on lorries, and they drive them nearly 400 miles down Europe's motorways to a French city called Strasbourg where, for four days, the contents of our offices, and our papers, are put into a new office, and the parliament then sits there. Twelve times a year this back-and-forth happens, and this from an organization who say they want to reduce their level of carbon footprint! This, from an organization whose accounts have not been given a clean bill of health by the auditors for the last twenty years! Thisa parliament? It's more like a traveling circus. Now, all of Europe knows that it's costing nearly 300 million every year to move this back and forth from Brussels to Strasbourg, so why isn't it reformed? Well, the way the EU has been structured, to change that would require changing the treaties, and to change the treaties would need all 28 member governments to agree not to go to Strasbourg twelve times a year. And do you know something? The French are never going to agree to that, cause it's in their economic interests for the traveling circus to go to Strasbourg. And it shows you that a system of law-making has been devised where not only can the voters not change anything, but the institutions themselves are pretty much incapable of reform. Unfortunately, this is no laughing matter. Let me give you an example my countrymen know only too well. The United Kingdom is an island; it's surrounded by the sea, and yet, as members of the European Union, we were only allowed to catch 20% of the fish swimming in territorial British waters. What that meant was tens of thousands of jobs were lost in Britain's coastal communities as we effectively gave away the ability to look after one of our greatest resources to a bureaucracy based in Brussels. No wonder we left the EU. Again, I have nothing against Europe; quite the opposite. I want good relations between all the European nations. I want prosperous, free, and fair trade between those nations. But I'll be damned if I'm going to give up my rights as a British citizen so that some Eurocrat can tell me how to live. I won't do it, and I'm certain that across the continent, ultimately, the French and the Italians won't put up with it either. I'm Nigel Farage for Prager University.
Dear Celebrities, I'm sorry to be the one to have to break this to you, but we do not care - not in the slightest particle of an imaginary thing - what you think. If this surprises you, I understand. Because, let's be fair: We play an important role in your delusion. We camp out for days to buy tickets to your sold-out shows, then shout for you to reach down from the stage to touch our hands. Faster than science would believe humanly possible, we learn the lyrics to your every song and master the choreography to your every dance move. We devour your movies, TV shows, and Netflix specials. From that angle, I suppose it's easy to believe that after all the adulation, all the fan mail and all the magazine covers, you may have actually come to believe that we care what you think. But you're wrong. Nobody cares what you think. Nobody! Well, maybe your mother and your therapist do. But we don't - not even a little. Allow me to spell this one out for you. I go to a Lady Gaga concert to hear her belt out tunes that remind me of my messy college days. But watching her desperate protest against the results of a free and fair election? Hardly an event I'd ever care to see again in my lifetime. I follow Beyonc because - let's face it - nobody does a break-up anthem better. But can someone please tell me why I should care if she's for Hillary or for Garfield the Cat? And here's to you, Marc Jacobs - you design a killer pair of shoes. But as a political philosopher you leave a lot to be desired. In fact, it's difficult to comprehend why you thought it necessary to publicly refuse to dress our first lady. And to the scores of celebrities who threaten to move out of the country if we don't vote your way - wow! Just how long on a private jet must one travel to reach that level of narcissism? This may rock your glittery world, but we don't care whether you stay in America or move to another country. Why would we care where you live? On the one hand, we should find all of this amusing; but on the other, it's actually deeply offensive: It's offensive that you confuse our admiration for blind faith. When Eminem raps I have to either pick him or the president of the United States, I don't know whether to laugh or cry. Which is why it's important that I take this moment to offer each and every one of you celebs a free ride back down to Planet Earth. What happens outside of your gated communities, chauffeured SUVs, and personal assistant's iPhone is the real world. It's the rest of us, working very hard to earn a living - working toward that weekend break, when we can perhaps afford to treat ourselves to your concerts, your movies, and your handbags. You see, we want to enjoy what you do. Sing. Dance. Act. Design. It's a wonderful gift you have. And it's extremely valuable not only to you, but to us. Entertaining people - making them laugh, or cry - is something that you should take pride in. You enrich our world with your talent. But when you go on a political rant on late night TV or call your fans racist and sexist - my God, these people are your fans! - just because they don't think or vote the way you want them to, you cross a line. You lose touch with reality. You become just another shill for another politician. And who wants to be a fan of that? I'm Candace Owens for Prager University.
In May 1940, Adolf Hitler and his Nazi war machine were sweeping across the European continent. The future of the free world hung in the balance. An isolationist-leaning United States was an ocean away. There was one man who stood between Hitler's seemingly invincible army and crushing defeat. That one man was Winston Churchill. He was born on November 30, 1874. Though we think of him as the quintessential Englishman, he was actually half American. His mother, Jennie, was the daughter of a wealthy New York stock speculator. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was of English nobility and a major political figure. From his early school days, Churchill recognized the power of words. Throughout his life, he used them with consummate skill. They never let him down. He first made a name for himself as a war correspondent in the 1890s, covering conflicts in Cuba, Northern India, the Sudan, and South Africa. Though he never abandoned journalism, and became one the greatest historians of his age, Churchill used his family connections and his own fame to launch himself into politics. His confident manner and matchless oratory marked him as a natural leader. 1914 and World War I found him in the key position of First Lord of the Admiralty where he did much to modernize Britain's navy. In 1915, Churchill thought he could bring a speedy end to the war by opening a new front in Turkey, which he perceived as the weak link in the German alliance against the allies. This led to the infamous Gallipoli campaign. Badly underestimating the fighting strength of the Turks, thousands of British, Australian and New Zealand soldiers were killed in battles that proved to be every bit as indecisive and bloody as the campaigns on Europe's Western front. Churchill took the blame. This was perhaps the low point of his life. Dismissed from the war cabinet, five months later he enlisted in the army, where he saw action in France. He rose again in British politics throughout the 1920s, making money - as he always did - through his writing and speaking. As Adolph Hitler took power in Germany in the 1930s, Churchill was one of the first and certainly the loudest voice in England sounding the alarm. But it was an alarm few in England wanted to hear. The English had been traumatized, as had all of Europe, by the shocking amount of death and destruction of the First World War. No one wanted to face the possibility that it could happen again. Churchill, however, saw that a new confrontation with Germany was inevitable. And when the inevitable arrived with the stunning German attack on France in May 1940, a desperate nation turned to him. He was ready. His weapons were his pen, his voice and his words. I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat, he told the House of Commons in his first speech as Prime Minister. Things quickly turned from bad to worse. France collapsed, Belgium surrendered, and a quarter of a million British soldiers barely managed to escape from Dunkirk. Even as the war news moved from dangerous to desperate to disastrous, Churchill never wavered. In speech after speech, he infused the British with the spirit to fight on against Hitler's monstrous tyranny. We shall not flag or fail, he said after Dunkirk. We shall go on to the end. We shall defend our island, whatever the cost may bewe shall never surrender. The point about Churchill in 1940 is not that he stopped a German invasion, but that he stopped the British Government making peace. If Churchill had not been Prime Minister, the pro-appeasement foreign secretary Lord Halifax would have been. We know that Halifax was open to negotiating with Hitler. We'd be mistaken to assume that the German Fuhrer's terms would not have been reasonable; they would probably have been very reasonable, as Hitler wanted to fight a one-front war against Russia. And an agreement with Britain would have allowed him to do just that. Churchill made this impossible. Had he not rallied the British people in the face of defeat after defeat, preventing Hitler from concentrating his full efforts on Russia, the entire history of the free world would have been much different. And, undoubtedly, much darker. Because of Churchill's efforts and the marvelous resilience of the British people, the United States had an unsinkable aircraft carrier - Britain - from which to mount the liberation of the European continent in June of 1944. For this and so much more, free people everywhere can thank the greatest man of his age - Winston Churchill. I'm Andrew Roberts for Prager University.
Imagine there's an organization that claims to stand for one thing but actually stands for another. Imagine this organization calls itself a health care provider, but it's not involved in preserving life; it's involved in ending it. And imagine that you help finance this organization, whether you want to or not. Well, you don't have to imagine. This organization exists. And it has a name with which you are very familiar. It calls itself Planned Parenthood, and the deception begins right there. Planned Parenthood doesn't help people plan for parenthood; it helps people escape it. And that's only the start of its deceptions. Planned Parenthood tells you it's one of the nation's leading women's health care providers, but it provides very little healthcare. It tells you it provides adoption referrals, but the only adoption advice it is likely to offer is, Google it. Most deceptive of all, Planned Parenthood tells you that abortions are a small part of what it does, but it performs more abortions than anyone else in America. Here are the facts. The folks who run Planned Parenthood boast that they provide life-saving cancer screenings. And they do. Just not that many of them - less than 2 percent of the nation's screenings each year. They talk about providing breast exams. They do, but just not that many of them again, less 2 percent of the nation's total. They talk about providing ultrasounds, but the last thing they want to do is show a pregnant woman an image of her growing child. So, they don't. The ultrasound is only for Planned Parenthood's use to better facilitate patients' abortions. In other words, abortion, not women's health, is Planned Parenthood's reason for being. Every year it does more than a third of all abortions in America over 321,000 of them. That's equivalent to every inhabitant of St. Louis or Pittsburgh wiped out, every year. That's over 880 abortions every day. An abortion every 98 seconds. And while the number of total abortions in the US is going down, Planned Parenthood's market share of abortions has increased from 23 percent in 2006 to 34 percent in 2016. So, when Planned Parenthood says its devoted to women's reproductive rights, what it means is it's devoted to aborting as many babies as possible. And here's the biggest deception of them all. Planned Parenthood would like you to believe that abortion is only 3 percent of the total services they provide. 3 percent. Doesn't sound like very much, does it? But here's how they get to that 3 percent. They count every discrete clinical interaction as its own service. What is a discrete clinical interaction? Pretty much anything you do from the moment you walk into one of their clinics. I'll give you an example. Let's say a woman comes into Planned Parenthood for one service - an abortion. Before providing an abortion, Planned Parenthood has to confirm that the woman is pregnant, right? So, they administer another service - a pregnancy test. That's two services! Then, after the abortion, on your way out the door, they hand you a prescription. That's three services! And there are many other services provided during the abortion process that Planned Parenthood claims as discrete clinical interactions. In this way, Planned Parenthood is able to rack up 9.5 million of these so-called services each year. Divide the number of abortions, 321,000, by 9.5 million, and you get 3 percent. Even the Washington Post, a Planned Parenthood ally, declared this 3 percent figure very misleading. Rich Lowry of National Review nicely illustrated this phony statistic: It would be like Major League Baseball saying they sell 20 million hot dogs, but only play 2,430 games, so baseball is only .012 percent of what they do. So, why does Planned Parenthood engage in all these deceptions? Well, as they say, follow the money. According to federal law, the United States government is not permitted to spend taxpayer money on abortions. But Planned Parenthood receives over $500 million a year in federal funding. Not for abortions, mind you. But for those other discreet clinical interactions. Over the last 10 years, its annual clientele has dropped 23 percent, almost a quarter. But during this time its taxpayer funding has skyrocketed from $336 million in 2006 to $543 million in 2016. The reality is, just about everything about Planned Parenthood is a deception. Its purpose, its funding, its very name. That's why Planned Parenthood's biggest enemy isn't conservatives or religious people. Its biggest enemy is truth. I'm Lila Rose, founder and President of Live Action, for Prager University.
I'm Ami Horowitz and I want to know has the Democratic Party moved more toward the extreme left I'm here outside NYU to find out by playing a little game. It's time to play that game that's fun for the whole family: "Is it the Communist Manifesto, or is it the Democratic party platform?" let's do it! "We will push for a societal transformation ." Communist Manifesto Communist Communist Communist No, incorrect. Democratic party platform What? That sounds majorly communist. Democratic Correct! We've established new classes, new conditions of oppressions, new forms of struggles that replace the old ones." Uhhh, communist. No, I feel like all the answers they're gonna be democratic. What's your answer? Okay, I'll go with uh... Democratic Party platform. Communist Manifesto Communist Manifesto this time? Correct! "The racial, wealth, and income gaps are the result of policies that discriminate against people." Democratic Correct! Democratic Party platform or Communist Manifesto? Democraitc. Correct! Communist Manifesto. "Disparities in wealth cannot be solved by the free market." Communist Manifesto or Democratic Party? Communist Manifesto. Oooh, Democratic platform. That's Communist. Democratic Party platform. I'm gonna stick with the Communist Manifesto. That's definitely the Communist Manifesto. That is definitely the Democratic Party platform. Really? That sounded just like the Communist Manifesto. That's crazy. Yeah, they sounds similar, don't they? Yea yeah yeah they do. "We will challenge and dismantle the structures that define lasting racial, economic, political, and social..." Communist Manifesto. No. Democratic Party platform. Wait, what? No way. I see why this game is happening. That sounds like the Communist Manifesto, so I'm going to go with Democratic Party. CORRECT!! "The system is not working. We have rigged the economy." Hmm, that's kind of hard...Okay, so I'll say communism. Democratic Party platform. Democratic. Correct! Communist Manifesto. Communist? Democrat? Democratic Party platform. Communist platform. Communist. Correct! Communist Manifesto? Democratic? Really? Yep. If that's the Democratic Party, then that's... wild. F%*#. S*%# Ah man... Democratic. CORRECT!! My teacher, Natalie, from Harvey Milk High School -- shout out to her -- because she taught me everything I know.
President Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg address is one of the most famous speeches ever given. It is stunning in its brevity: ten sentences - 272 words - and delivered in just over two minutes few have said more with less. Lincoln delivered the address on November 19, 1863. He was in Gettysburg to dedicate a national military cemetery to the Union soldiers who fell at the Battle of Gettysburg four months earlier. The North's victory here was one of the pivotal battles of the American Civil War. Lincoln begins this way: Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Lincoln goes back in time - not to the signing of the Constitution, but to the Declaration of Independence. The Constitution, in forming our government, was the product of many compromises most notably, slavery. In contrast, the Declaration of Independence declares our enduring national values. In one sentence, Lincoln summarizes the American project: liberty for all and equality of all. Now we are engaged in a great civil war testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. Lincoln's assertion is two-fold. First, the United States is unique. No nation was ever founded on a commitment to liberty and equality. And the Civil War was a trial to see if a nation based on such lofty ideals could survive. We are met on a great battlefield of that war. Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, was the site of the bloodiest battle of America's bloodiest war. In three days of fighting, 51,000 Americans on both sides - Union and Confederate - were killed, wounded, captured, or missing. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate - we cannot consecrate - we cannot hallow - this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. Lincoln is not in Gettysburg to celebrate the Union victory. Rather, he explains that those who fought were the loyal guardians of the American Experiment. With their blood, they watered the tree of liberty. As Lincoln himself knew, how could his words ever compare to that sacrifice? He even speculates that, The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. Ironically, the world remembers what our sixteenth president said, but do we remember the actions of those who fought at Gettysburg? Lincoln answers that question with a challenge: It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us - that from these honored dead, we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion Those who fought and died shouldered our nation's enduring values through the refining fire of Gettysburg and the Civil War. Lincoln points to them, and challenges the living. Are we prepared to heed their example to do what is necessary to advance the founding ideals of the Declaration of Independence? Remember, the Gettysburg Address is a wartime speech. Lincoln is steeling his contemporaries for the many battles, burdens, and responsibilities still ahead. But he's also looking to the future - he is looking to us. Lincoln concludes: that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain - that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom - and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. The Union won the Civil War. Slavery ended. And with it, the values of liberty and equality were given a new birth. However, the struggle for liberty and equality continuedand persists today. Lincoln foresaw this. To remain a nation dedicated to the proposition that all men - all people - are created equal and that government of, by, and for the people shall not perish from the earth - these are the unfinished work and the great task remaining of every generation. Ours is no exception. Are we up to President Lincoln's challenge? I'm Professor Doug Douds of the Army War College for Prager University.
I run an educational media company. We produce five minute videos about different topics we believe the world should be aware of. We produce videos about history, political science, just anything we believe that would make a person whole and more knowledgeable and savvy in this world. (About 35 PragerU videos are currently restricted) When we first realized that our videos were being restricted there were about fifteen videos that were restricted and that was a year and a half ago. And since then not only has the issue not been resolved, there's actually been 20 more videos restricted and currently it's closer to 40 videos that are being restricted. And after nothing really happening for weeks and weeks, we kept pressing them, and then they eventually told us well after reviewing your videos we determined they're not appropriate for a young audience. Which was really troubling to us at PragerU, because if you've seen any of our videos they're very educational, and they're very appropriate for a young audience. They have placed our videos on their restricted list, that means that it can't be viewed in libraries, schools, or any home that filters out pornography for example, cannot be seen in any of those places. Our videos are as innocent as exists on the internet. Pulitzer Prize winners, professors from Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Yale, and they still said inappropriate, but we still don't understand why. You think when you google something, everything on that subject comes up. I mean it's in their mission statement, they say we organize the information of the world and make it universally accessible to all, they don't do that because they don't make ours accessible. When I learned Youtube had been denying access to its platform to PragerU's videos, I said I think the only way you're gonna get honest answers, and gain the access that the first amendment would require, is if in fact you start getting people through discovery in a lawsuit. I almost feel like we're being bullied because being silenced is such a frustrating feeling. This is not just about PragerU being silenced, this is about another point of view that is being silenced, tomorrow it's going to be your point of view that's being silenced. Is google the one who gets to decide what everybody gets to watch?
Let's talk about climate models. Specifically, let's talk about the climate models that attempt to predict the future temperature of the planet. But before we do, it's important that you know a little about me. I'm a physicist. I taught at Columbia University and then at Princeton for five decades. I have published over 200 peer-reviewed scientific papers. I have coauthored several books, including one of the first on how carbon dioxide emissions, CO2, affects the climate. I served as the Director of the Office of Energy Research at the US Department of Energy. And before that, I invented the sodium guide star, which is still used on most big astronomical telescopes to measure and correct for atmospheric turbulence, that is, for the unpredictable movement of air and water. This turbulence blurs the images of stars and other space objects. One more thing; I care deeply about the environment. We live on a beautiful planet. I want to keep it that way. I've spent a lot of time working to do just that. In short, I know a lot about the Earth's atmosphere and climate. I also know a lot about long-term predictive climate models. And I know they don't work. They haven't worked in the past. They don't work now. And it's hard to imagine when, if ever, they'll work in the foreseeable future. There's a common sense reason for this. Aside from the human brain, the climate is the most complex thing on the planet. The number of factors that influence climate: the sun, the earth's orbital properties, oceans, clouds, and, yes, industrial man, is huge and enormously variable. Let me try to narrow this down. For the purposes of illustration, let's just focus our attention on water. The Earth is essentially a water planet. A major aspect of climate involves the complicated interaction between two very turbulent fluids: the atmosphere, which holds large amounts of water (think rain and snow), and the oceans, which cover fully 70% of the earth's surface. We can't predict what effect the atmosphere is going to have on future temperatures because we can't predict cloud formations. And, the convection of heat, oxygen, salt and other quantities that pass through the oceans, not to mention weather cycles like El Nino in the tropical Pacific, make predicting ocean temperatures an equally difficult business. We can't predict either side of the atmosphere/ocean equation. But we can say this with certainty. Water, in all its phases, has huge effects on atmospheric heating and cooling. Compared to water, H20, carbon dioxide, CO2 is a minor contributor to the warming of the earth. It's devilishly difficult to predict what a fluid will do. Trying to figure out what two fluids will do in interaction with each other on a planetary scale over long periods of time is close to impossible. Anyone who followed the forecast of Hurricane Irma's path in the late summer of 2017 should understand this. First the models predicted a direct hit on Miami and the east coast of Florida. Then, defying these predictions, the hurricane suddenly veered to the west coast of Florida. In other words, even with massive amounts of real-time data, the models still could not accurately predict Irma's path two days in advance. Does any rational person believe that computer models can precisely predict temperatures decades from now? The answer is, they can't. That's why, over the last 30 years, one climate prediction after another based on computer models has been wrong. They're wrong because even the most powerful computers can't solve all the equations needed to accurately describe climate. Instead of admitting this, some climate scientists replace the highly complex equations that describe the real-world climate with highly simplified ones, their computer models. Discarding the unmanageable details, modelers tune their simplified equations with lots of adjustable inputs, numbers that can be changed to produce whatever result the modelers want. So, if they want to show that the earth's temperature at the end of the century will be two degrees centigrade higher than it is now, they put in the numbers that produce that result. That's not science. That's science fiction. I'm Will Happer, Emeritus Professor of Physics at Princeton University, for Prager University.
Blaming others for your problems is a complete waste of time. When you do that, you don't learn anything. You can't grow, and you can't mature. Thus, you can't make your life better. In my three decades as a professor and clinical psychologist, I have learned that there are two fundamental attitudes toward life and its sorrows. Those with the first attitude blame the world. Those with the second ask what they could do differently. Imagine a couple on the brink of divorce. They're hurt and angry. The unhappy, bitter husband recalls the terrible things his wife has done, and the reasons he can no longer live with her. The harried and disillusioned wife, in turn, can describe all the ways her husband let her down. Each has a long list of necessary changes - for the other person. Their prospects for reconciliation are grim. Why? Because other people aren't the problem. You're the problem. You can't change other people, but you can change yourself. But it's difficult. It takes courage to change, and it takes discipline. It's much easier - and much more gratifying to your basest desires - to blame someone else for your misery. Consider the youthful activist, making a statement against the corrupt capitalist system by smashing in the storefront of a local business. What has he done, other than to bring harm to people who have nothing to do with his real problems? The guilt, doubt and shame he will inevitably feel in consequence will have to be suppressed so his beliefs can remain unchanged. And that suppression will do nothing but foster his anger and alienation. In the play The Cocktail Party by American-English poet T.S. Eliot, one of the characters is having a very hard time of it. She speaks of her profound unhappiness to her psychiatrist. She tells him that she hopes her suffering is all her own fault. Taken aback, the psychiatrist asks why. Because, she tells him, if it's her fault, she can do something about it. If it's in the nature of the world, however, she's doomed. She can't change everything else. But she could change herself. Now, there are people who seem to be consigned to a terrible fate. But most of us aren't. Most of us have a chance to make our lives better. But how? Start small. Ask yourself a few questions: Have you taken full advantage of the opportunities offered to you? Are you working to your fullest capacity at school or at work? Have you, in other words, set your own house in order? If the answer is no, try this: stop doing what you know to be wrong. Stop today. Don't waste time asking how you know that what you're doing is wrong. Inopportune questioning can confuse without enlightening, and deflect you from action. You can know something is right or wrong without knowing why. Start paying attention: Do you procrastinate, show up late, spend money you don't have, and drink more than you should? It's not a matter of accepting some externally imposed morality. It's a dialogue with your own conscience. What are you doing that's wrong, from your own perspective? What could you put right - right now? Get to work on time. Stop interrupting people. Make peace with your siblings and your parents. Diligently utilize everything you already have at hand. If you do those things, your life will improve. You'll become more peaceful, productive and desirable. After some days, or weeks, or months of attentive effort, your mind will clear. Your life will become less tragic, and you will become more confident. You'll start seeing right from wrong more clearly. The path in front of you will shine more brightly. You'll stop getting in your own way. Instead of bringing trouble to yourself, your family, and your society, you'll be a positive and reliable force. Your life will still be difficult. You'll still suffer. That's the price of being alive. But maybe you'll become strong enough to accept that burden, and in that fashion even come to act nobly, and with purpose. The proper way to fix the world isn't to fix the world. There's no reason to assume that you're even up to such a task. But you can fix yourself. You'll do no one any harm by doing so. And in that manner, at least, you will make the world a better place. I'm Jordan Peterson, Professor of Psychology at the University of Toronto, for Prager University.
Hey guys, this is William Witt with PragerU, today we are at the Women's March in LA we're going to be doing some interviews with some people, find out why they're here and Finding out exactly what's going on? Everybody knows that this is not, this president has not been good for this country. He has not. Alright get a look at this in the camera He's great. Do you think there's a wage gap between men and women? That's what you were referring? Sure, I mean that's not even not even what I think I know everyone knows is a given. Stay out of my wife's uterus It's not even me. Why do you want to get rid of him? Because he's a misogynist. He's a bigot. He's racist he's uneducated. He's Unintelligent, he's everything we don't want as a President. And in general on jobs like women are paid less than men all the time doesn't matter if there's Seniority or whatever, higher up still getting paid less, and where do you see that happening? All across the United States. Do you have an instance? instance Nothing I can think of. And what parts of socialism do you like? That it gives everyone a fair Opportunity, okay. What sort of inequality do you see between men and women right now? Well has your eighty-year-old boss ever told you you have a beautiful body in an elevator? sometimes. I do have a beautiful body. You do, your body is fantastic, great tie. Thank you. Unemployment rates are the lowest they've been in the last 17 years. I would I don't know. The Dow Jones just hit record highs. Oh, yeah? Yeah, yeah record highs. Record highs? Yes, the Dow Jones just hit record highs. If women could get paid less than men, then why would businesses not just hire all women to save money? Uh, That's the great question. What is he doing that is oppressing these people? I mean when is he not doing? Trump has gotten it so that we have now have tax reform in this country, where you're gonna see an increase in your pay which Is awesome, you hear about that? I don't work. You don't work? You are our future. Lead the way. Do you think all business owners are sexist, and that's why they pay women less? I wouldn't say all business owners, but majority of business owners are sexist. Do you have any evidence for that? Pay gap. What do you think about Trump? God just go shut the f**k up and go away. I would say you have to continue investigating some of his problems with Russia. What problems are those? I'm not entirely certain I'm just really out here to like be part of like the movement the resistance okay. The resistance to what? To 45, I can't even say his name Trump? Yes. Donald? Yeah. What organization are you with? PragerU! Oh God.
I'm a Christian, a patriotic American, and a free-market, shrink-the-government conservative - who also happens to be gay. What I mean by that is my values define me, while my sexual orientation sometimes feels more like - well, a footnote. Literally, in fact. I came out as gay in a footnote in my book, End of Discussion. When it comes to my political beliefs, my orientation is only one part of the story. It's not the totality of who I am. Some unimaginative leftists like to claim that this qualifies me as a "self-hating" gay person. This is so boring. That intellectual laziness only underscores my point. Far too often, people are sorted by their gender, or their skin color, or their sexual orientation, or any other immutable characteristic that has nothing to do with ideas or values. To be candid, in my day-to-day life and work, I spend a lot more time thinking and writing about the failures of Obamacare, for example, than I do about LGBT issues, whatever that term might mean on any given day. Just like any conservative, I want taxes low, the military strong, and don't even get me started on single payer health care or late-term abortion. I'm a conservative because when I think about these issues critically, I usually end up on the right end of the spectrum. It's that simple. Here's the thing: I fully recognize how fortunate I am to live in a time and a country where I can be openly gay and live a normal life. And that's in large part thanks to the hard work of gay rights activists who've paved the way for people like me - people who had it much harder than I do, and people who likely wouldn't share my politics. I am genuinely grateful to them. But it's a new era now. Why ostracize members of our community who don't toe the left-wing political line? Exit polling shows that in the last four general elections, between 14 and 29 percent of LGBT voters pulled the lever for the GOP. That's a lot of us. Now, does that mean that we all support every element of the party's platform? Absolutely not. In fact, I know that many conservatives, including some here at PragerU, don't see eye-to-eye with me on all of these questions. And yet, here I am - making a PragerU video. Which perfectly illustrates another really important point: Conservatives are often much more tolerant of dissenting views than those who fancy themselves the torch-carriers of open-mindedness. Nope. Cross the left on a hot-button social issue, and you're out. You see, some on the left believe that they're entitled to control the thoughts or votes of certain groups of people - namely minorities and so-called victim groups. For some, it comes down to a cynical calculation: Without the overwhelming support of those groups, the Democrats would win very few elections. That's why the left lashes out so viciously at anyone who wanders off their assigned reservation. I suspect conservative women and Hispanics and African Americans know exactly what I'm talking about. The truth is, the left isn't entitled to a damn thing. To paraphrase my coauthor and friend, Mary Katharine Ham: We didn't get liberated in order to be told by liberal activists precisely what we're allowed to think, or how we must vote. A free-thinking, free citizen of a free country is not obliged to believe anything because someone else believes he or she ought to think or ought to vote or ought to rank his (or her) priorities a certain way. Look, I get it: Many other gay people approach these issues and their voting criteria differently - and I respect that. That's their call, even if it's not how I choose to operate. What's the phrase again? Live and let live? Why has that been turned on its head, into agree - or else? Let's debate issues and stop trying to punish wrong thinking. Like I said, I'm a Christian, a patriotic American, and a free-market, shrink-the-government conservative - who happens to be gay. That's how I choose to rank my priorities. You know what that's called? It's called progress. I'm Guy Benson for Prager University.
Racist. Sexist. Republican. These words are virtually interchangeable - at least, according to most professors, journalists, and celebrities. So, are they right? Let's take a look at history. The Republican Party was created in 1854. The first Republican Party platform, adopted at the party's first national convention in 1856, promised to defeat, quote, those twin relics of barbarism: polygamy and slavery. Those twin relics were spreading into the western territories. Republicans feared that as those territories became states, polygamy and slavery might become permanent parts of American life. Polygamy - the marriage of one man to multiple women - devalued women and made them a kind of property. Slavery, of course, did the same to blacks. Literally. The Democrats were so opposed to the Republicans and their anti-slavery stance that in 1860, just six weeks after the election of the first Republican president, Abraham Lincoln, South Carolina, a state dominated by Democrats, voted to secede from the union. The Civil War that followed was the bloodiest war in US history. It led to the passage, by Republicans, of the 13th Amendment, which freed the slaves; the 14th Amendment, which gave them citizenship; and the 15th Amendment; which gave them the vote. In 1870, the first black senator and the first black congressman were sworn in - both Republicans. In fact, every black representative in the House until 1935 was a Republican. And every black senator until 1979 was, too. For that matter, the first female member of Congress was a Republican; the first Hispanic governor and senator were Republicans. The first Asian senator? You get the idea. Republicans also kept their pledge to defend women's rights. In 1862, the Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act was passed by the Republican-controlled Congress to put an end to polygamy. In 1920, after 52 years of Democratic Party opposition, the 19th Amendment was ratified thanks to the Republican Congress, which pressured Democratic President Woodrow Wilson to drop his opposition to women's rights. In the final tally, only 59 percent of House Democrats and 41 percent of Senate Democrats supported women's suffrage. That's compared to 91 percent of House Republicans and 82 percent of Senate Republicans. There certainly was a war on women - and it was led by the Democratic Party. But while Republicans had won a major battle for women's rights, the fight for blacks' civil rights had a long way to go. In the 1920s, Republican President Calvin Coolidge declared that the rights of blacks are just as sacred as those of any other citizen. By contrast, when famed sprinter Jesse Owens, a staunch Republican, won four gold medals at the 1936 Berlin Olympics, he was snubbed by Democratic President Franklin Roosevelt. Roosevelt only invited white Olympians to the White House. Two decades later, it was a Republican President, Dwight Eisenhower, who sent the 101st Airborne Division to escort black students into Little Rock's Central High when Arkansas Governor Orval Faubus - a Democrat - refused to honor a court order to integrate the state's public schools. The Civil Rights Act of 1960, which outlawed poll taxes and other racist measures meant to keep blacks from voting, was filibustered by 18 Democrats for 125 hours. Not one Republican senator opposed the bill. Its follow-up bill, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, is one of the landmark pieces of legislation in American history. That, too, survived a filibuster by Democrats thanks to overwhelming Republican support. But, you might be thinking, all that's in the past. What have Republicans done for women and blacks lately? The answer you'd hear from professors, journalists and celebrities is... not much. And this time, they'd be right. They'd be right because the Republican Party treats blacks and women as it treats everyone: as equals. The Democratic Party never has, and it still doesn't. Today's Democrats treat blacks and women as victims who aren't capable of succeeding on their own. The truth is, this is just a new kind of contempt. So, there is a party with a long history of racism and sexism...but it ain't the Republicans. I'm Carol Swain, for Prager University.
Is there an afterlife life after this life ends? There probably isn't a human being who hasn't asked this question at one time or another. And here's the answer: If there is a God, there is an afterlife. It's that simple. And here's why: First, this life is filled with an immeasurable amount of injustice and suffering. The only way there can be some ultimate justice for victims of evil is if there is an afterlife. And the only way comfort is available to those who suffer unjustly from painful disease and premature death to the death of a child is if there is an afterlife. But such an afterlife exists only if there is a good and just God. A good and just God provides a way to compensate for all the unjust suffering in this world. Second, since God is not physical, the physical world is not the only reality. There is also a non-physical reality. And we humans have a part of us which, being non-physical, survives the death of our body. We call it the soul. But if there is no God, this physical life is all there is. So, no God, no soul; no soul, no afterlife. Now, of course, those who doubt God's existence have every reason to doubt an afterlife. But if you believe in a good God, then you have to believe there's an afterlife. If you say you believe in God but not in an afterlife, the god you believe in is not only not good, that god is cruel. That god made a world filled with unjust suffering and just left it at that. Now, some people who don't believe in an afterlife offer their own version of immortality. I once attended a funeral where the man officiating said, While there is no afterlife, we do live on through our good works and in the memories of loved ones. That's what a lot of people who reject an afterlife want to believe. But the idea that human beings live on through their good works or through the memories of loved ones - which generally means a person's children or grandchildren - is simply meaningless. If people live on through their good works, then children who die don't live on. The number of good works most children are even capable of is minuscule. As for babies who die, well, babies can't engage in good works at all so, I guess, they just don't live on. Anyway, the truth is that bad works usually live on longer than nearly any good works. In fact, if works make us immortal, Hitler with all the evil he did is far more immortal than the kindest people on earth. As for living on in the memories of our children, what do we say to those who have no children? Sorry, you don't live on? Moreover, living on in anyone's memory as beautiful as that is is not the same as immortality or an afterlife. As Woody Allen put it, I don't want to achieve immortality through my work. I want to achieve it through not dying. If there's no afterlife, we don't live on. Period. Let's be honest enough to acknowledge that. If there's no afterlife, none of us will ever again be with those we most love and who love us. If there's no afterlife, neither anyone murdered nor any murderer will ever receive ultimate justice. If there's no afterlife, this life, for the vast majority of people who ever lived and for those alive now, is a meaningless crapshoot. Finally, people always ask me, So, what happens in the afterlife? To which I can only respond: I don't know. But I do know this: My belief in God and the afterlife keeps me sane. The thought that this life is all there is means that torturers get away with the horrors they have engaged in; it means that this life is random and pointless; and it means that I will never again see anyone I love. This would drive me mad. In fact, I don't see how it wouldn't drive anyone mad who cares about suffering and who loves anyone. So is there an afterlife? If there is a God, of course there is. I'm Dennis Prager.
I'm Ami Horowitz, and i'm back in the east village; liberal Mecca. The Republicans recently voted on a new tax proposal, and predictably, Democrats didn't like it. But what if they thought that the Republican plan was actually a Bernie Sanders proposal? We've presented them with the Republican tax plan and pretended that it was in fact Bernie's plan What are your thoughts on the Republican tax plan? Good, bad? I'm gonna be honest with you I thought there's another excuse for the rich people to get a break from having to pay taxes that the rest of us are working people have to pay Doesn't have much stuff in it for the middle-class working Americans, I think? I mean that's The basis of what I've heard This seems like the middle class is going to get hit pretty hard here Um, they suck. They all suck. There's a lot about the current proposed tax plan that's just ridiculous So Bernie came out with a competing plan I want to give you some of the deal points and kind of get a sense of what you think of his deal points. If you're, making $50,000 or less Most families of 4 will not pay any taxes at all. It's a good plan. Double the child tax credit for 1,000-2,000. What do you think about that? He's lowering corporate taxes from 35% to 21% Lowering corporate taxes? [Yes.] Okay. If you take out a mortgage for more than $750,000 you're going to end up paying more in taxes on that home. I could definitely side with that. The more money you make, the more of a percentage of your income you have to pay in taxes. Yeah, I know that people who make a lot of money aren't going to like that but like this is how it is. Exactly, right, 1%? He keeps the Obama-era tax credits for clean energy Yeah, he keeps the Obama-era tax credit? Oh, 100,000,000,000,000%. What do you think of Bernie's tax plan? It's fantastic. Do you feel the bern? Do you find those things to be good or bad? I find it to be good for the most part It seems Seems like a good thing Yeah I think that that's a step in the right direction I love Bernie. I voted for him Yeah, sad. I miss Bernie more now than ever Overall I'll give it an A+ yeah It's all just rational with Bernie, and with Trump it's not Now what if I tell you these are all in Trump's tax plan? Really? Oh, this is one of those things? What if I were to tell you that that's all the Republican tax plan is Is it? What if it was? [Is it?] It is. Well, why aren't they showcasing that those aspects are everything? They should be, right? [Yeah.] So what if I tell you that all this was in the Republican tax plan Really? Well now that's really interesting What if I tell you that all that stuff was a Republican tax plan Would you rethink your position on it? [Yeah.] Would you consider it and take a closer look at it to see if it made more sense? Sure! I mean, definitely. Do you think now knowing, what's in that plan you might be more open to supporting it? [Yeah.] I'm definitely gonna look into this because that is not what I expected. This would be the first time I would sit here and say, "Well, the Republicans might be doing something well." Yeah, I'm curious. Thanks for opening, my mind to that Hi i'm Marissa Streit, CEO of PragerU. Did you know that PragerU is a non-profit? Every dollar you give on the donate link, below, will go directly towards marketing this video.
Participation trophies. I'm not a fan. They're bad for kids. Bad for parents. Bad for society. Other than that, they're okay. Don't get me wrong. I love any kind of organized competition for kids. I lived and breathed baseball, basketball, football and soccer growing up. If there was a sport to be played, I played it. And never once did anybody ever tell me that winning was not important or that showing up was all that mattered. But today, kids get a different message. Losing? No big deal. Showing up? That deserves a trophy. Wow. What an awful thing to tell a kid. Glad my parents or coaches never said it to me. If they had, I'm sure I never would've become a pro soccer player. Let me tell you why. In high school, I was a good soccer player. I thought I could play soccer in college. Looking back, though, I just wasn't good enough in those college coaches eyes. I tried out for the UCLA team as a walk-on. I made it! I was vindicated. I had arrived...on the bench. The coach hardly ever looked at me. I'm not even sure he knew my name. I know he didn't care about my feelings. I wanted to be a starter, I wanted to be a winner. Shouldn't I have been satisfied just for making the team? Of course not. That's absurd. But isn't that what kids are told today? You're a winner. Even if you're not. Even if you come in last. And we'll give you a trophyjust for showing up, just for participating. This belief that showing up is an accomplishment is self-destructive. Because the pain of losing is part of what drives one to improve. The frustration of going to game after game and sitting on the bench drove me nuts. I had to practice more. I had to work harder. Or, I had to give up. And I didn't want to give up. This taught me an important lesson: If you don't put in the work, you won't get ahead. And not getting ahead? Well, that feels awful. So, put in the work. Or go home. So, I put in the work. I pushed myself, not to do my best because who can possibly know what their best is? but to be better. And better. And one day, my chance came. Coach put me in the game. Not because I wanted so badly to play, but because he needed me. I played well. Well enough to start the next game where I scored a goal, and had an assist. After that I started every game. The road to victory in sports, in business, in life is paved with losses, painful losses. Losses that can hurt so much it's hard to breathe. Any professional athlete or successful entrepreneur will tell you that's true. But participation trophies, everybody-is-the-valedictorian, and let's-all-pat-each-other-on-the-back awards communicate a different message. They tell you that losing doesn't matter it matters. They tell you that competition is, at best, not important, and at worst, dangerous. I wonder how my soccer career would have turned out if I'd grown up with these ideas in my head. I was cut twice during the tryout period for the 1992 Olympics. My pro soccer team, the LA Galaxy, lost three times in the championship before we finally won in 2002. Guess what? I survived all these disappointments and a whole lot more. They only made victory that much sweeter. In the real world, you're rewarded for achievement, not effort. Promotions don't go to the employees who did their best. They go to the employees who did the best. But what if the kids can't handle losing? What if it's too painful? That's the whole point. It's your job as the adult, as the parent, to help them understand that losing that not getting what they want is a part of life. Nobody likes to fail, but it's inevitable and it's the only path, ultimately, to success. Yes, showing up and participating is important. Trying your best is important. But neither deserves a trophy. If you want one of those, go win something. I'm Cobi Jones for Prager University.
Small businesses are the engine of the American economy. There are 29 million of them and they provide employment for roughly half the U.S. workforce. Through innovative products, dedicated employees, and strong community roots, these entrepreneurs are responible for two thirds of all job Creation. That's a lot of jobs. But high taxes and intrusive government regulation can eat away at budgets and hurt their ability to raise wages and hire new people. In fact, small business owners say that high fedreal tax rates are their number one concern. Most small businesses 95 percent of them, in fact are taxed through the owner, which mean these businesses are subject to federal tax rates that can reach 40 percent. Small businesses structured like this are commonly referred to as pass throughs. Imagine 40 cents of every new dollar earned going to the government. In any other circumstance, theft on this level would not be tolerated. Why is it for small businesses? Significant tax cuts for these small enterprises would turbo charge the U.S. economy. According to a recent poll of small business owners, a majority of respondents would use the financial savings from tax cuts to invest back into their businesses. This means hiring more people, raising wages, and expanding operations. By energizing America's entrepreneurial through small business tax cuts, America's middle class can experience greater job security, higher wages, and a more vibrant main street.
Every year the U.S. federal government collects more than $3 trillion in taxes, and almost half of that comes from you and me, the individual income taxpayers. These are the taxes that come out of your paycheck or maybe you pay quarterly. Either way - it's a lot of money, so it's worth learning more about! So here are five things you didn't know about the individual income tax: Number one: The individual income tax has been the largest source of federal government revenue since 1950 - accounting for 47.3 percent of revenue in 2016. Number two: While the name individual income tax implies that only individual Americans pay the tax, many small businesses are subject to it as well. A majority of small businesses are set up as pass-through entities, which means that business profits are included on the owner's individual tax sheet and is thus taxed at the individual rate which is higher than the rates big corporations pay. Number three: According to 2016 data from the Tax Policy Center, 44 percent of Americans - or roughly 77 million people - don't pay any federal income taxes at all. Number four: A combined 2.6 billion man hours is spent every year filling out tax returns. That's an average of 17 hours per American tax filer. If time really does equal money, we're paying even more than we thought to Uncle Sam. And lastly number five: According to the most recent data from the Tax Foundation, the top one percent of taxpayers contribute roughly 40 percent of all federal income taxes collected. And the bottom 50 percent of taxpayers were responsible for less than three percent. That's a lot of taxes paid by very few people. The individual income tax is what makes many of the benefits and programs provided by the federal government possible, but having the rate set too high can have serious consequences on the financial situation of individuals and their families, as well as overall economic growth. Small business tax cuts is not a partisan issue, it's an American issue. Both Republicans and Democrats should be able to get behind legislation that accelerates job creation, raises wages, and strengthens communities. It's a win-win policy.
Imagine a group of activists so powerful that they could beam their propaganda directly into your brain. Now also imagine that they're so sophisticated, they actually get you to pay them to do it. Unfortunately, you don't have to imagine it. It's real. It's Hollywood. As big as the internet has become, Hollywood - and here, I'm talking specifically about television - is still king. Not only does it reach hundreds of millions of people with its messaging, it embeds that messaging in seemingly innocuous stories - stories that distract us from the hardships of daily life; stories that make us feel good, compassionate, and decent. We watch TV, in other words, because we like it. And just as Americans didn't think much about the carcinogens in the cigarettes they smoked for decades, most Americans don't think much about the toxic politics in the television they watch. But those who create that content do. They spin out hour after hour of slickly-produced left-wing propaganda and they give themselves awards for doing it. They applaud each other's courage, even though all their friends think exactly as they do. I spoke with nearly a hundred members of the Hollywood community when I wrote my book, Primetime Propaganda, and many of them openly admitted they inserted social justice messages into their shows. How they do it is both clever and effective. Hollywood writers, producers, directors, actors create characters we keep wanting to spend time with, then have those characters act in ways most of us would judge wrong. Then, in effect, they ask us a question: Isn't it really okay that Rachel from Friends decided to have a baby without first marrying Ross? After all, you like Ross and you like Rachel! How can what they do be bad? It hasn't always been this way. For decades, Hollywood promoted traditional American values. That changed, as did so much else in the late 1960s and 70s, when Hollywood stopped celebrating American values and started transforming them. For example, in the early 1970s, abortion was a hotly-contested issue. A year before the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court case, the top-rated TV sitcom, Maude, featured a storyline in which the title character of the show has an abortion. The LA Times described it as a watershed moment in TV history. Why? Well, because it removed the stigma of abortion. Millions of Americans, sitting in their living rooms, saw a beloved character do something they did not approve of - and felt sympathy. Something similar happened in the early 2000s. Vice President Joe Biden was right when he said that Will & Grace had a major impact on how Americans think about same-sex marriage. Before the hit NBC show, though most Americans had a live-and-let-live attitude toward private sexual behavior, few supported the idea of men marrying men or women marrying women. But seeing the charming and funny Will Truman live his life week after week paved the way for a much wider acceptance of same-sex marriage. Current shows like Orange Is the New Black and Transparent are trying to affect the same change on the issue of transgenderism. You may think these are all good things. Or that some are, and some aren't. That's not my point. My point is that Hollywood has had a tremendous influence on our culture, and that influence has been all to the left side of the political spectrum. And it isn't just social issues. Chevy Chase likes to boast that he helped Jimmy Carter defeat Gerald Ford in 1976. He may be right. Week after week on Saturday Night Live, Chase portrayed Ford, probably the most athletic president in American history, as a bumbling, uncoordinated idiot. In the early 2000s, Comedy Central had a show, That's My Bush!, that openly mocked the 43rd president. And, of course, Hollywood despises Donald Trump. From crime dramas to the late-night comedy shows, he's relentlessly ridiculed. Somehow, Hollywood managed to take an eight-year hiatus from mocking presidents during the Obama years. But maybe that's just a coincidence. All of this programming has an effect. Scientific studies suggest that watching TV acts like a habit-forming drug. According to the market research firm Childwise, teenage boys spend 8 hours per day in front of screens, much of it consuming Hollywood propaganda. Dedicated religious parents might expose their children to two hours a week of religious instruction. Hands-on parents might spend thirty minutes a day discussing essential values with their kids. Hollywood gets up to forty hours a week. Every week. By all means, enjoy television. I do! But remember, the people making TV don't merely want to entertain you; they want to influence you. They want you to think like they think. And, unless you're aware of what they're trying to do, chances are, you will. I'm Ben Shapiro, editor of the Daily Wire, for Prager University.
If you're counting on Social Security to finance your retirement, you're in for a big surprise - and not the good kind. Let me give you two reasons why. One: Social Security is going broke. And, two: Even if it weren't going broke, it couldn't possibly cover the cost of a decent retirement. Let's look at these two reasons in a little more detail, and then I'll propose a solution. Social Security is going broke. When this government program was set up in 1935, the average life expectancy was 60. But you couldn't collect your first check until you reached 65. In other words, most people didn't live long enough to receive Social Security. And most of those who did, didn't collect it for very long. Today, the average lifespan is 79. So now, most people do live long enough to receive Social Security - for 10, or 20, or even 30 years. Here's another important piece of information: When the program started, the ratio between worker and retiree was 159 to 1. That means for every one person drawing benefits, 159 were paying in. Today the ratio is 2.8 to 1. You get that? We've gone from 159 workers supporting every retired person to fewer than three workers supporting every retiree. And it's going down. You don't need an advanced math degree to figure this one out: Social Security is spending more than it's bringing in. Far more. Its own Board of Trustees has said that it will be bankrupt within twenty years. That doesn't mean it won't exist. It means that either the government will pay you less than it promised, or it will have to raise taxes to make up the shortfall. Most likely, both. Sounds about right for an entitlement program, doesn't it? Starts out small, but just keeps growing and growing until it collapses under its own weight. But let's indulge in a fantasy and say that Social Security is perfectly designed, perfectly balanced, and efficiently run. And that you would get every dollar you were promised. You'd still have a major problem if that's all that you're relying on. To illustrate, in 2017 the average monthly Social Security check was a little over $1,400. That's under $17,000 a year - barely above the poverty line for a two-person household. Do you really want to live at the poverty line in retirement? Why in the world would you plan for that? But sadly, many people are. According to a recent study, 53 percent of un-retired baby boomers have no retirement savings. That means they're planning to rely on Social Security for their retirement income. That's them. Don't let it be you. Here's the right way to prepare for retirement: First, get on a budget. I don't care if you're 55 or 25. I don't care if you're making $400,000 a year or $40,000 a year. You need to have a plan for your money. I love motivational speaker John Maxwell's line that a budget is simply telling your money where to go instead of wondering where it went. That means knowing, before the month starts, where every dollar you make is headed. Whether it's the mortgage or rent or groceries or a car payment or whatever, you need to give every dollar an assignment. Second, attack and avoid debt like the plague. Most Americans spend 25% of their income paying off debt. Imagine how much money you could save if you didn't have this albatross around your neck. Well, actually, you don't have to imagine. Again, it's simple math. A 30-year-old investing $500 a month in an investment fund with a six percent annual return will have over a million dollars by the time he's 70. So make a plan to get rid of your debt for good. I like the snowball method. List your debts, smallest to largest, putting every extra dollar you have toward the smallest while making minimum payments on the rest. Once the smallest is paid off, roll that payment into the next-smallest. And do this until all of your debt is paid. Finally, put Social Security in perspective. Anything you get from it should be considered a fringe benefit - icing on the cake, not the cake itself. There's nothing wrong with getting Social Security checks. After all, you earned it by contributing to the system all those years. But there is nothing secure about Social Security. The last thing you want to do is rely on it. If you do, well - good luck. I'm Chris Hogan for Prager University.
He's a fascist! For decades, this has been a favorite smear of the left, aimed at those on the right. Every Republican president - for that matter, virtually every Republican - since the 1970s has been called a fascist; now, more than ever. This label is based on the idea that fascism is a phenomenon of the political right. The left says it is, and some self-styled white supremacists and neo-Nazis embrace the label. But are they correct? To answer this question, we have to ask what fascism really means: What is its underlying ideology? Where does it even come from? These are not easy questions to answer. We know the name of the philosopher of capitalism: Adam Smith. We know the name of the philosopher of Marxism: Karl Marx. But who's the philosopher of fascism? Yes - exactly. You don't know. Don't feel bad. Almost no one knows. This is not because he doesn't exist, but because historians, most of whom are on the political left, had to erase him from history in order to avoid confronting fascism's actual beliefs. So, let me introduce him to you. His name is Giovanni Gentile. Born in 1875, he was one of the world's most influential philosophers in the first half of the twentieth century. Gentile believed that there were two diametrically opposed types of democracy. One is liberal democracy, such as that of the United States, which Gentile dismisses as individualistic - too centered on liberty and personal rights - and therefore selfish. The other, the one Gentile recommends, is true democracy, in which individuals willingly subordinate themselves to the state. Like his philosophical mentor, Karl Marx, Gentile wanted to create a community that resembles the family, a community where we are all in this together. It's easy to see the attraction of this idea. Indeed, it remains a common rhetorical theme of the left. For example, at the 1984 convention of the Democratic Party, the governor of New York, Mario Cuomo, likened America to an extended family where, through the government, people all take care of each other. Nothing's changed. Thirty years later, a slogan of the 2012 Democratic Party convention was, The government is the only thing we all belong to. They might as well have been quoting Gentile. Now, remember, Gentile was a man of the left. He was a committed socialist. For Gentile, fascism is a form of socialism - indeed, its most workable form. While the socialism of Marx mobilizes people on the basis of class, fascism mobilizes people by appealing to their national identity as well as their class. Fascists are socialists with a national identity. German Fascists in the 1930s were called Nazis - basically a contraction of the term national socialist. For Gentile, all private action should be oriented to serve society; there is no distinction between the private interest and the public interest. Correctly understood, the two are identical. And who is the administrative arm of the society? It's none other than the state. Consequently, to submit to society is to submit to the state - not just in economic matters, but in all matters. Since everything is political, the state gets to tell everyone how to think and what to do. It was another Italian, Benito Mussolini, the fascist dictator of Italy from 1922 to 1943, who turned Gentile's words into action. In his Dottrina del Fascismo, one of the doctrinal statements of early fascism, Mussolini wrote, All is in the state and nothing human exists or has value outside the state. He was merely paraphrasing Gentile. The Italian philosopher is now lost in obscurity, but his philosophy could not be more relevant because it closely parallels that of the modern left. Gentile's work speaks directly to progressives who champion the centralized state. Here in America, the left has vastly expanded state control over the private sector, from healthcare to banking; from education to energy. This state-directed capitalism is precisely what German and Italian fascists implemented in the 1930s. Leftists can't acknowledge their man, Gentile, because that would undermine their attempt to bind conservatism to fascism. Conservatism wants small government so that individual liberty can flourish. The left, like Gentile, wants the opposite: to place the resources of the individual and industry in the service of a centralized state. To acknowledge Gentile is to acknowledge that fascism bears a deep kinship to the ideology of today's left. So, they will keep Gentile where they've got him: dead, buried, and forgotten. But we should remember, or the ghost of fascism will continue to haunt us. I'm Dinesh D'Souza for Prager University.
I am an Arab. I am a Muslim. And I love my country. In fact, I'm prepared to die for it. Which is why I serve in its army. I don't have to do this. I want to do this. Because my country is a special place, unlike any other. Free. Diverse. Vibrant. Yet, other countries - countries not so free, not so diverse - call for my country's complete destruction. The moment my country lets its guard down, it will be destroyed. My country is Israel. I grew up and still live in a small village named after my family's Bedouin Arab tribe. Our roots in this land run deep. In 1948, when Arab armies invaded the new state of Israel, my family thought of leaving our village. Some of them did. But when the Jews' leaders heard that, they implored us to remain. This is our country, for both Arabs and Jews, they said. Stay, and we will work together to build it. My family stayed. My parents were born here, made their lives here, started their own family here - in Israel. In 2002, I was a teenager. It was a violent time. Palestinian suicide bombers were blowing up Israeli civilians - a danger to Arabs and Jews alike. Israeli troops entered to the West Bank to stop them at their source. As a result, many Palestinians were killed. I was torn. Whose side was I on: Israel's or the Palestinians'? Is it possible to be an Arab and an Israeli? The question became even more difficult when I saw men from my own village wearing the uniform of the Israeli army. Only Jews are required to serve in the military. No one forced these Arab men to join; they chose to. Why? I asked them. Our home is here, in Israel, they said. Our home is under attack. Our neighbors in this home are Jews. They are being attacked. We fight together. Still, I struggled. I went to high school in Nazareth. There, unlike the village where I grew up, most of the Arab students identified as Palestinians even though they are citizens of Israel. Some of the students - my friends - hated Israel. They couldn't understand me. You're a Palestinian, they said, so you must hate Israel. When I said that I didn't, that we had far more freedom and opportunity than Arabs anywhere in the Middle East, they called me a traitor. After high school, I went on to study electrical engineering at Technion, a leading Israeli university. During my first semester, heavy rocket fire from Gaza forced Israel to launch a counterattack. Not long after the war began, I witnessed a group of Arab-Israeli students expressing their solidarity with Hamas, the Palestinian terror organization that controls Gaza and is committed to Israel's violent destruction. Did these students not understand that those rockets could just as easily be aimed at them? Hamas didn't care who they killed as long as they landed inside the borders of Israel. Had my fellow Arab students forgotten that Israel had left Gaza a few years before? That there wasn't a single Israeli living there? That day, I dropped out of school to join the Israeli army, the IDF. A few months later, I was a soldier in the Israeli Air Force. After months of training, I was assigned to the Search & Rescue Helicopter Unit. Our job was to save lives. We never concerned ourselves with the identity of the people who needed our help. We rescued Syrian civilians wounded in their country's civil war, Palestinian children from Gaza requiring urgent medical care, and countless Israelis of every religious and ethnic background. A life - whether it is Muslim or Jewish, Palestinian or Israeli - is a life. On a base of 6,000 soldiers, I was the only Bedouin. But it didn't matter. The only thing that mattered was keeping Israel - our home - safe. We came from all parts of the country and from many parts of the world. We were every shade of skin color. Our shared goal created a deep bond. Today, I am a student at Haifa University. Half of the students are Arab. More than once, I have seen the Palestinian flag being waved at a rally or protest on campus. In Israel, you can do this because, whether you are a Jew or an Arab, you are free. What more do you need to know? I am Mohammad Kabiya for Prager University.
The national anthem stands for freedom -- even the freedom to do foolish things... like protesting the national anthem. But, like my mama always said, just because you are free to do the wrong thing, it doesn't mean that you should. Starting in 2016, some professional football players have refused to stand when the national anthem is played before a game. Some of them kneel, some of them sit on the bench, some of them raise their fist, and some don't even come out of the locker room. This was all started by San Francisco 49er quarterback Colin Kaepernick. His idea was to protest the alleged mistreatment of black people by police... and by America in general. As he put it, "I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color. Kaepernick no longer plays in the league because, apparently, NFL owners are racist against backup quarterbacks who don't throw well. But his protest lives on and has spread to college and high school athletes. Even elementary school kids have gotten into the act. I like football and I sing the anthem publicly at events. This doesn't make me an expert, but I've got a problem with some things here. First, the protest is based on something that just isn't true. And second, even if it were true, the protest is misdirected and self-defeating. Let's start with problem one. Despite what we're told by Black Lives Matter and their media allies, the police are not engaged in a coordinated campaign to destroy the black race. As Harvard Professor Roland Fryer -- who happens to be black -- and others have shown, there is no evidence of racial bias in police shootings. In any case, the thing that makes headlines -- police shootings of unarmed black men -- is very rare. How rare? Statistics show that an unarmed black man is more likely to be killed by lightning than by a policeman. So, if police are trying to persecute black folks, they're doing a really bad job. Am I saying racism doesn't exist? Of course not. Am I saying racist cops don't exist? Of course not. But I would say this. Blacks have a lot more to fear from black criminals than from the police. The police keep us safe. And they risk their lives every day doing it. That sounds like it's a lot more deserving of a thank you than a screw you. Now, problem two: The protest is misdirected and self-defeating. The American flag and the national anthem are symbols that represent our country. Even if some police officers are racist jerks, it doesn't make sense to protest those particular jerks by demonstrating against the country as a whole. Martin Luther King, Jr. protested discrimination against blacks on city busses by boycotting city busses. He never denigrated the flag or the anthem. In fact, he did the opposite. He argued that the people who oppress blacks are the ones denigrating the flag and what it stands for. And what does it stand for? Ironically, it's the protestors themselves who give us the answer: it stands for freedom. The fact that you can disrespect the anthem and the flag proves that you're free! Anyone who doesn't stand for the anthem would do themselves a favor if they studied some current events. They'd learn that oppressive countries don't allow anyone to publicly disrespect national symbols, much less earn millions of dollars while doing it. You won't see anyone sitting for their national anthem in North Korea or Iran. Well, you might -- but that will be the last time you see them Which brings me to my final point: In America, where you are free to sit or stand during the national anthem, sitting when you should be standing is more a statement about you than about America. And you don't come off too well. You come off, frankly, as ignorant and ungrateful: ignorant about a country that works to correct its faults, and ungrateful for the opportunity and freedom that it offers all its citizens. For that, I'm standing. How about you? I'm Joy Villa for Prager University.
How many times have you heard someone say they want to make a better world? It is noble sentiment, but very hard to achieve, right? Well, actually, it's quite easy. All we have to do is increase just one human trait. This trait is so powerful that it alone can make people happier without working on their happiness, and make them better and by better I mean more generous, more honest, more kind, more everything good without a single lesson in morality. So, then, what is this one almost magical thing? Drumroll please. It's gratitude. You can't be a happy person if you aren't grateful and you can't be a good person if you aren't grateful. Almost everything good flows from gratitude, and almost everything bad flows from ingratitude. Let's begin with ingratitude. Here's a rule of life: Ingratitude guarantees unhappiness. It's as simple as that. There isn't an ungrateful happy person on Earth. And there isn't an ungrateful good person on Earth. There are two reasons. Reason One is victimhood. Ingratitude always leads to or comes from victimhood. Ungrateful people, by definition, think of themselves as victims. And perceiving oneself as a victim or perceiving oneself as a member of a victim group may be the single biggest reason people hurt other people -- from hurtful comments to mass murder. People who think of themselves as victims tend to believe that because they have been hurt by others, they can hurt others. And the second reason ungrateful people aren't good people is that ingratitude is always accompanied by anger. The ungrateful are angry, and angry people lash out at others. If ingratitude makes people unhappy and mean, then gratitude must make people happy and kind. And so it does. Think of the times you have felt most grateful were they not always accompanied by a feeling of happiness? Weren't they also accompanied by a desire to be kinder to other people? The answer, of course, is yes. Grateful people aren't angry, and they don't see themselves as victims. The problem, however, and it's a big one, is that in America and much of the rest of the world people are becoming less grateful. Why? Because people are constantly told that they are entitled to things they haven't earned what are known as benefits or entitlements. The more things that people think they should get, the less grateful they will be for whatever they do get. And the more angry and therefore unhappy they will be when they don't get them. Here's are two rules of life: Rule number one. The less you feel entitled to, the more gratitude you will feel for whatever you get and the happier you will be. Rule number two. The more you feel entitled to, the less happy you will be. That's why, for example, children who get whatever they want are usually less happy children. We have a word for such children spoiled. And no one thinks of a spoiled child as a happy child and certainly not a kind one. The more that you feel that life or society owes you, the angrier you will get, the less happy you will be. As a result, we are increasing the number of angry, unhappy, and selfish people. The other way we are making people unhappy, and even meaner, is by cultivating a sense of victimhood. People are constantly told that they are victims because of their upbringing, because of past prejudice against their group, because of material inequality, because they are female, and for many other reasons. Next time you want to assess any social policy, ask this question first: Will this policy increase or decrease gratitude among people? You will then know whether it is something that will bring more goodness and happiness to the world. Or less. If I were granted one wish, it would be that all people be grateful. Gratitude is the source of happiness, and the source of goodness; and the more good people, and the more happy people there are walking around, the happier and better our world will be. If you have a way of achieving such a world without increasing gratitude, let me know what it is. I'm Dennis Prager.
"Can you change a person's mind in five minutes?" My mind was changed in my life in under five minutes. "Five minutes?" "You're gonna change somebody's mind in five minutes?" "Come on..." "You need four years, you need to spend two-hundred thousand dollars for tuition, you need to spend another hundred thousand dollars for books, and dorm rooms, and parties, and then you can learn something." No. So the people that work for _PragerU_ are mostly under thirty-four, which also explains why 60% of our audience is thirty-four. The biggest portion of our audience is just young people and they come from all over the political spectrum. There's people on the left, there's liberals, there's moderates, and there's conservatives, but our main demographic is young people. Eighty million people have seen a _PragerU_ video. Forty-five million of those people are under the age of thirty-four. We have over a thousand students across the nation who use our videos both as a way to articulate the ideas that they believe in, but also to learn about another side. _PragerU_ has helped me talk about issues that are important, like racism, gender issues, and politics in general. PragerFORCE is the student ambassador program for _PragerU_. It is the largest digital army in the conservative movement. It's so important to reach high school and college students because right now in high school and college you're... You're only being taught one perspective. _Prager University_ offers an alternative perspective to all of the things that they're being taught. The future of PragerFORCE is endless. A Princeton student said to me very simply, "I just want you to know Dennis, that I learn more at _Prager University_ than at Princeton." The number of young people who could say that about any university they have attended is quite high. _PragerU_ can really change the future of America. We've had all kinds of hopes for _PragerU_ to do well, but over the last couple of years we realized that we are actually changing minds. "Can _PragerU_ change minds?" That's what we do That's like asking, "Can an airplane fly?" A great idea, a great verse, a great sentence, is enough to change your mind if you're open to thinking things through. There's no question five minutes is enough. _PragerU_ videos have changed my mind. We have people all over the world right now as I'm talking to you who are binge-watching _PragerU_ videos. We now have 250. That's a lot of binging. Takes a while. One in four Americans have seen a _PragerU_ video, but that means three out of four have not. It is our mission here at _PragerU_ to reach those three out of four as quickly as possible. We market the hell out of them. If we had more funding for marketing we would be able to reach every single person in America and around the globe. Do you see how disruptive this is? Can you conceive of how powerful this is? _PragerU_ is the best thing that could happen to America. I have two little kids, another one on the way and I just want them to have the access and the liberties that I had growing up in the United States and I believe that _PragerU_ really has a good chance at making sure that that happens. Once I had kids of my own life became a lot more serious and important to me. I have three little daughters, and I do not want them growing up in a world where they're indoctrinated by leftism everywhere they go. I'm going to do everything I can in my power to work for an organization like _PragerU_ that is truly making a difference and having an impact and instilling and introducing conservative values to the next generation. Honestly, I'm not really sure how conservative students can get through college without _PragerU_. Well let me tell you what our absolute goal is and that is to make people's lives better. That's what we want to do. That's our mission and we can do it. We can do it five minutes at a time. People want truth. They want to learn. As long as people want to learn, as long as people want to seek out the truth, _PragerU_ will be successful. This is one of the most important projects I've ever done. That's an understatement. I'll leave it at that.
Food, football, andoppression. That's what Thanksgiving has come to mean to many Americans. Back in 2007, Seattle public school officials made national news by describing the holiday as a time of mourning and a bitter reminder of 500 years of betrayal. This new narrative describes the Pilgrims as arrogant oppressors who fled persecution only to become persecutors themselves, depriving Native Americans of their land and their lives. But this is wrong on every count. First of all, the Pilgrims didn't cross the ocean to flee persecution - or even England. They'd been living for over a decade in Holland, Europe's most tolerant nation, and a haven for religious dissenters. Free from interference by the Church of England, they feared seduction - not persecution, worrying that their children would be corrupted by the materialistic Dutch culture. That's why they risked their dangerous 1620 voyage to a wilderness continent: not because they were running from oppression, but because they were running toward holiness - fulfilling a fateful mission to build an ideal Christian commonwealth. They initially planned to plant this model society on the wild, wolf-infested island known to natives as Manhattan, but winds and tides blew them 250 miles off course, dumping the Mayflower on the frozen coast of Massachusetts. Somehow, the Pilgrims saw their dire situation as a demonstration of providential power - especially after a giant wave picked up the flimsy boat of a scouting party on a stormy December night. The turbulent sea then deposited them safely - miraculously - on a little island within sight of the ideal location for their settlement. It was a deserted Indian village with cleared land, stored supplies of corn, and a reliable source of fresh water. No, these supposedly cruel conquerors never actually invaded that village. Instead, they expressed a fervent desire to pay the natives for the dried corn they found, if only they could find someone to pay. But the former inhabitants had perished during three years of plague - probably smallpox - that immediately preceded the Pilgrims' arrival. One of the few survivors of that devastation turned up several months later to welcome the English newcomers. Against all odds, he proved to be the single human being on the continent best-suited to help the struggling settlers, since he spoke English and had already embraced Christianity. His name was Squanto, and he had grown up in this very village before a ruthless sea captain kidnapped him as a boy and sold him into slavery in Spain. After four years, he was freed by kindly monks, then made his way to England, and finally sailed across the Atlantic - only to find his friends and family all wiped out by disease. Over the next few months, Squanto helped the English newcomers plant crops and negotiate a friendly trade agreement with the region's most important chief - Massasoit. No wonder Pilgrim leader William Bradford called Squanto a special instrument sent of God for their good. The celebration later known as The First Thanksgiving, actually involved a three-day harvest festival in October, apparently inspired by the Biblical holiday of Sukkot, or The Feast of Tabernacles. Ninety hungry Indian warriors joined the 53 surviving Pilgrims for this occasion (nearly half the colonists had died during the brutal winter). The Englishmen provided some vegetables, fish, and perhaps wild turkeys, while the natives brought five recently hunted deer as house gifts. The preferred sport on this occasion wasn't football, but shooting, with settlers and Indians sharing a fierce fascination with guns. Though these hardy Pilgrims loom large in the American imagination, they never built their Plymouth settlement into a major colony. In nearby Boston, the later colony of Massachusetts Bay grew so much faster that it swallowed up the great-grandchildren of the Pilgrims in 1691. But the sense of purpose of the original Pilgrims left a permanent imprint on the national character. They maintained unshakable confidence that God protected them - not to grant special privileges, but to impose special responsibilities. They saw themselves as instruments, not authors, of a mysterious master plan. Today, with our continued blessings so obvious and so overwhelming, the only reason to treat this beloved national holiday as a time of mourning is that some foolish Americans actually think that's a good idea. The Pilgrims knew better: they understood that people of every culture and every era can gain more from gratitude than from guilt. I'm Michael Medved for Prager University.
I used to be a senior software engineer at Google. Until they fired me. For doing something unforgivable. Something so controversial that it was the number one news story for days. My crime: I wrote an internal document, that among other things, suggested that men and women, on average, are different. Like I told you. Unforgivable. The politically progressive viewpoint, which is dominant at Google and in the media, is that all disparities in society are due to injustices. Or in this case, that the gender gap in tech is solely due to some form of sexism. But is this true? The politically correct answer is: yes. And Google acts accordingly. It treats men and women differently during hiring and promotion, holds official women-only events, and gives mandatory sensitivity training on how to combat alleged sexist bias. Of course, all of this makes sense if sexism is indeed the sole cause of the imbalance. But what if men and women are not exactly the same? Then, sexism is just one of many possible causes of the imbalance, and exclusionary programs and differential treatment can be a counterproductive form of sexism. These practices actually increase tensions and make some feel like Google cares more about their gender than their programming ability. As an engineer, when I'm faced with a problem, I want to solve it. So I decided to research the premise: that men and women are exactly the same. I wrote my findings in a 10-page document, titled, Google's Ideological Echo Chamber. You can read it online. What did I discover? That not all of the male-female disparity in tech may be the result of sexism. That at least some of it may be attributed to men and women having different goals for their careers and their lives. To cite just two examples: In the study Women, Careers, and Work-Life Preferences, published in the British Journal of Guidance and Counseling, the study's authors conclude that women, across populations, tend to look for more work-life balance, while men tend to have a higher drive for status. And according to a study by Cal State Fullerton psychologist Richard Lippa, men, on average, tend to be more interested in things, while women tend to be more interested in people. These findings have been replicated many times. They've actually been cited by other researchers as a cause for the gender gap in tech. In other words, I didn't make this stuff up. In fact, after my document came under attack, evolutionary psychologist Geoffrey Miller said its empirical claims are scientifically accurate. But Google disagreed. Likereally disagreed. First, the company's newly appointed VP of Diversity, Integrity, and Governance, Danielle Brown, posted a memo that said my report advanced incorrect assumptions about gender. Google's CEO, Sundar Pichai, sent a memo to all employees saying that I cross[ed] the line by advancing harmful gender stereotypes. This was, he added, not O.K. Then, he fired me. By that point, much to my shock, my document had gone viral. News outlets were branding it an anti-diversity manifesto. But if they had read what I wrote, they could see for themselves that it was pro-diversity. I had suggested multiple ways that we could get more women into tech without resorting to counterproductive discrimination. Ironic, isn't it? The company that hires some of the smartest people in the world couldn't handle a well-reasoned, scientific discussion. But my firing pales in comparison to a larger issue. Will Google force upon its users the same politically correct views that it forces upon its employees? The evidence is disturbing: Google already manipulates its products to fit a certain viewpoint. Just one example: YouTube, Google's video platform, restricts access to dozens of PragerU videos, along with videos made by other influential moderates and conservatives. Yes, Google is a business and can set its own policies. But for its billions of users, Google is their main gateway to information, the lens through which they view the world. This makes Google, in some ways, more powerful than even the government. And that means Google has a special responsibility to, well, simply follow its own motto: Don't be evil. I'm James Damore for Prager University.
Media is everywhere from the earliest age, Through grade school, Through high school and college. And into adulthood. Young people are exposed to one point of view. "If any body still wants to dispute the science around climate change, have at it." "You can't cite one example where religious freedom is under attack." "Economic plans only help the top one percent" It's time for a change. "Socialism can only occur at gunpoint." "The more power the government has, the more corrupt it becomes." "Without America, people around the world would suffer from far more tyranny, enslavement and genocide." Prager University isn't a conservative nonprofit that happens to dabble in media. Prager University Is a conservative media company that happens to be a non-profit. And it's working. We bring the best minds and voices to millions of viewers every week. We use cutting-edge technology to make our values accessible to anyone with internet anywhere. Using state-of-the-art marketing, technology, social media, TV and radio. And thousands of Prager for student volunteers mobilized on campuses around the world. To reclaim the future for our values, One mind at a time.
Trust in the media is at an all-time low - and for good reason. We in the business of journalism have exempted ourselves from the normal rules that used to govern us, and so the most egregious kinds of reporting errors are becoming more common. Formerly well-respected news organizations and experienced national reporters are making the sorts of mistakes that wouldn't be tolerated in journalism school. When these mistakes are corrected at all, it's with seemingly little regret. And the corrections never get anywhere near as much attention as the original salacious - but incorrect - narrative. How did we get here? I discuss that in detail in my book, The Smear. Here are three factors: First, firewalls that once strictly separated news from opinion have been replaced by hopelessly blurred lines. Once-forbidden practices, such as editorializing within straight news reports and the inclusion of opinions as if fact, are not only tolerated - they're encouraged. The result: It's never been harder for Americans to separate news that's real from news that's not. Example: May 14, 2016, ten days after Donald Trump became the Republican presidential nominee, the New York Times published a blockbuster article titled, Crossing the Line: How Donald Trump Behaved with Women in Private. The story's authors, Michael Barbaro and Megan Twohey, interviewed Rowanne Lane, an ex-girlfriend of Trump's. Her quotes made Trump sound, at best, like a jerk, and at worst, like a predator. The reporters went so far as to provide their own quotes for the story, presenting their personal commentary as if it were established fact, writing, This is the public treatment of some women by Mr. Trump...degrading, impersonal, performed. The problem is, the reporting wasn't true - according to Trump's supposed victim. Once the story was published, she publicly accused the Times of misleading her, writing a hit piece against Trump and putting a negative connotation on what - she said - was not...a negative experience. No matter where you stand, this was a huge development in terms of journalism: the main source behind front-page national news discredited the entire premise of the story. You'd expect something like that to rock the whole news organization and prompt investigations, a retraction, and re-examination of policies. Yet, I can find no record of any of that. The Times and their reporters never even apologized or printed a correction. Second, though we may personally like or dislike a politician, as journalists we're obligated to treat them the same. Too often, that's not the case. For example: In May 2008, then-presidential candidate Barack Obama said he had visited 57 states. Since there are only 50 states, everyone knew what he meant. He meant to say was that he had visited 47 states. The remark, nothing more than a verbal gaffe, drew little attention. And it didn't deserve more. But when Sarah Palin made a comparable gaffe, saying, We've got to stand with our North Korean allies, she was relentlessly ridiculed and mocked in the media even though everyone knew she meant to say South Korean allies. Third, too many of us have allowed ourselves to become tools of politicians and spin-meisters - often in order to get something in return. I call this transactional journalism. Example: Emails show in July 2009, The Atlantic reporter Marc Ambinder was promised a scoop. He'd get an advanced copy of a speech by then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton - but only if he followed certain conditions, as privately dictated by Clinton aide Philippe Reines. Reines emailed Ambinder precise instructions, including: Describe Clinton's voice as muscular' and Don't say you were blackmailed, by which Clinton aide Reines obviously meant, Don't reveal our arrangement. Got it, replied Ambinder. His resulting article reads in part: When you think of President Obama's foreign policy, think of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. That's the message behind a muscular speech that Clinton is set to deliver today. That Ambinder, then considered a serious journalist, would allegedly violate basic ethics for such a minor story speaks volumes about the state of today's news media. For the record, Ambinder defended himself by saying that he found Clinton's speech to be muscular, so the adjective was appropriate. I think most Americans would like to believe their news is factual, well researched, and untainted by a reporter's opinion. To put it another way, they want their news straight up. But too often now, that's not what they're getting, and they know it. I'm frequently asked, Can the news be fixed? The answer is yesbut the first step to fixing a problem is admitting that we have one. Until we do that, nothing can change. I'm Sharyl Attkisson for Prager University.
The federal government has become a lumbering giant. With each passing year, it gets bigger and scarier. In 1965, Washington was 761 billion dollars big (adjusted for inflation). In 2016... it was 3.5 trillion five times the size. If the government spent only the money it collected in taxes, that would be one thing. But it always spends more - which is why we're $20 trillion dollars in debt. That's 13 zeroes. Count em: Thirteen. But the crazy spending isn't even the worst of it. Washington is involved in every part of our lives. Think about anything you do, from driving your car to buying your groceries to mowing your lawn. Whatever it is - your education, your job, your health - the government has its hands on your shoulder, if not on your throat. As a congressman and senator for 14 years, I know this only too well. So, how do we cut this giant down to size? Is it even possible? Yes. And the amazing thing is, the answer is right in front of us. The Founding Fathers, in their wisdom, foresaw the situation we find ourselves in today. They wrote into the Constitution a way to repair Washington...not from the inside, because that will never happen but from the outside, where it might. It's right there in Article 5. Most people are familiar with the first part: The Congress, whenever two thirds of both houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments to this Constitution... All 27 Amendments we have now started this way. Congress proposed them and at least three-quarters of the states ratified them. But is this the only way to amend the Constitution? Well, let's read the next clause: It says that Congress, on the application of the legislatures of two thirds of the several states, shall call a convention for proposing amendments... Did you catch that? Congress must call a convention to amend the Constitution if two-thirds of the states - that's 34 states - demand it. The time has come to demand it. The time has come to propose amendments that will restore meaningful limits on federal power and authority. The time has come for a convention of states. Here's how it would work: Once the 34 states call a convention, all 50 states send a delegate to represent their interests. For any constitutional amendments proposed, each state gets one vote. And an amendment only passes out of the convention and to the states for ratification if a majority of the states' delegates vote in the affirmative. In this scenario, Congress has no say. It is completely in the hands of the states, which means it's a whole lot closer to the hands of the people. We've never once amended the Constitution this way - but that doesn't mean we can't. But, you might ask, doesn't this open the door to rewriting the entire Constitution? Antonin Scalia, the late Supreme Court justice, acknowledged this risk, but regarded it as a minimal and reasonable one. Why? Because to be ratified, a proposed amendment would need the approval of 38 states. That's a high bar. Thirty-eight states would never agree to something radical like abolishing freedom of speech. The Founders, Scalia said, knew the Congress would be unwilling to give attention to many issues the people are concerned with, particularly those involving restrictions on the federal government's own power... [so] they provided the convention [of states] as a remedy. This should not be a partisan, left/right, Democrat/Republican issue. This should be a "who controls your life" issue: you or the government? Today, politicians can turn your life upside down on a whim, kind of like King George in 1775. Being at the mercy of distant, disconnected rulers was why the American Revolution was fought in the first place! But we don't need a revolution. We have Article Five. So, what amendments might a Convention of States propose to limit Washington's power? Term limits, for one. No one should be in Congress for 20 or 30 years. The only people who disagree have been in Congress for 20 or 30 years. And how about a limit on taxes, spending and borrowing? Since you began this video, the national debt has gone up $8.4 million dollars. Here's one more idea: A constitutional amendment that Congress can't exempt itself from the laws it passes - something it's done dozens of times, from insider trading to Obamacare. Now, I don't believe a Convention of States will solve all of America's problems. But the Founders put it in the Constitution for a reason. They knew a time would come when Washington would become so big, and so intrusive, that only we the people could cut it down to size. That time is now. I'm Jim DeMint for Prager University.
What is the alt-right? Everybody has an opinion about it, but nobody seems to know exactly what it is. So, I took it upon myself to find out. I took a deep dive into alt-right culture. I read their books, listened to their podcasts, watched their videos, followed their blogs, and spoke personally to their leaders. Here's what I learned: First, they're really small... like, your high school reunion small. That big national alt-right gathering in Charlottesville, in August 2017? Yeah - that attracted all of about 600 people...and that's on the high end of estimates. And that infamous torch rally on the evening of August 11? There were maybe 100 tiki-torch carriers. But however small it is, the alt-right does have a belief system - a worldview. It's right there, in their name. The alt in alt-right means alternative. The alt-right is an alternative to American conservatism. So, it's no surprise then that the alt-right has far more in common with the left - another alternative to conservatism - than it does with the traditional American right. Let me try to untangle this. Both the left and the alt-right are obsessed with race and identity politics - the belief that a person's value is linked to their racial heritage. The left wants special status for racial and ethnic minorities. The alt-right wants special status for the racial and ethnic majority. Since America, according to the alt-right, was founded by white Europeans, and was built by white Europeans, it should belong to white Europeans. America's success, in their view, is a product of race and geography - or, as the alt-right likes to put it, of blood and soil. So, in the alt-right's view, the moral ideals of the American Founders - like, all men are created equal - are naive and misguided. The man who coined the term alt-right is a white nationalist named Richard Spencer, who runs alternativeright.com as well as the National Policy Institute, the self-described think tank of the alt-right. According to Spencer, the movement is dedicated to the heritage, identity, and future of people of European descent in the United States. Jared Taylor, the editor of the white identity website American Renaissance, holds that, Any attempt to create a society in which race can be made not to matter will fail. Other alt-right leaders include: Sam Francis, the late syndicated columnist and forefather of the movement who famously called for a white racial consciousness. Theodore Beale, the blogger known as Vox Day, who, in his manifesto, What is the Alt-Right cites the white nationalist motto, We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children. And Paul Ramsey, a white nationalist who produced and starred in a video entitled, Is It Wrong Not to Feel Sad about the Holocaust? Another area of agreement between the alt-right and the left is that both ultimately reject God. The alt-right admires Christendom for uniting the European continent, but rejects Christianity for its offer of salvation to all people, irrespective of race. The movement's favorite philosopher - just like the Nazis of yesteryear - is Friedrich Nietzsche, who famously claimed, God is dead. Spencer himself is an avowed atheist who, like leftists since Karl Marx, longs for a new ideology as robust and binding as Christianity to replace traditional religion. That brings us to the most glaring similarity between the alt-right and the left: their disdain for the individual. The constant focus of both the left and the alt-right on group identity means that they downplay the value of the individual. This stands in stark opposition to the fundamental American value, which conservatives have long championed, that places the individual, not the collective, at the center of society. The pioneer spirit, entrepreneurial drive, the acceptance of personal responsibility - these are uniquely American ideas, uniquely conservative ideas. But they mean little, if anything, to the alternatives to conservatism: the left and the alt-right. Put simply, the alt-right has three core beliefs: the promotion of white identity politics, the rejection of God, and the subordination of the individual to the collective. In other words, the alt-right has nothing in common with conservatism, and is in fact much closer to leftism. Except, of course, that the left is much, much larger. I'm Michael Knowles, host of The Michael Knowles Show, for Prager University.
Everyone knows that the earlier you learn a language, the easier it is to master. Learning a foreign language at four takes a lot less effort than learning one at forty. The same holds true with managing your money. I can tell you this from personal experience. I grew up in a home where the value of money was a frequent topic of conversation. Today, I teach people how to get out of debt, and build wealth with my dad, Dave Ramsey. Growing up in my parents home, I learned a few things about kids and money. Here are three: One: Put your kids to work. It's very important that your kids understand that money comes from work not from mom and dad's wallet. As soon as your children can grasp the concept of cause-and-effect -- and that happens at a very young age -- you can start teaching them about the work/money connection. Have them clean the playroom, take out the trash, put away their laundry there are a million things they can do. Just make sure it's age appropriate. Don't have your five-year-old mow the lawn. And pay them for some of the work they do. Let your kids know that in the real world you get paid only when you work. And it's with the money made from work that you can buy the things you want. When children work for the things they want to buy, the purchase feels like an accomplishment, not an entitlement. You're sending the opposite message when you just hand your kids a $20 bill when they ask for it, or give them an allowance for essentially breathing. Of course, not everything your child decides to buy will be a smart purchase. And that brings us to lesson number two: Let your kids make mistakes with their money. Many adults make expensive mistakes because as kids they were never allowed to make small, inexpensive ones. Tears now will save a lot of tears later. When I was young, my parents took our family to Opryland Theme Park in Nashville. Dad and Mom had one simple rule: If you want to play carnival games, you have to spend your own money. Of course, I ran to the first game near the entrance, slapped some cash on the table, and took my turn. I lost. So I put down more money. And I lost again, and again. Then came that terrible moment when I reached into my pocket and found nothing but lint. We had a whole day at Opryland ahead of us and I had blown through my cash! I ran back to Mom and Dad and begged them for more money and promised I'd pay them back. What Dad said has stuck with me ever since. Rachel, when the money's gone, it's gone. Your children are going to make some dumb choices. They'll waste money on stuff that a week later they wish they had never bought. And as their parent, there are times you need to let them make that mistake and suffer the consequences. That's how they learn. Lesson Number Three: Teach your kids to make saving a habit. Saving money is a discipline. How many adults do you know who save on a regular, consistent basis? But here's a fundamental, financial truth: if you don't save money, you won't have money. Teach your children that saving is one of the first things you do when you get paid not what you do with money you have left over. Fast forward twenty years. If they haven't learned to save, they're likely to go into debt for the things they want or need. Once they start down that road, it's very unlikely that they'll build wealth because their paycheck will be going to debt payments instead of investing for the future. I encourage parents to teach their children to save some of the money they earn. The habit of saving money is what's important here, not the exact dollar amount. The amount they save will depend on what they're saving to buy. And better for them to learn how to save now when Mom and Dad are supporting them. Or Mom and Dad that's you will be supporting them a lot longer than planned. So start today: help your kids to become fluent in the language of money and how to handle it. Because if you don't, well, all I can say is -- get the basement ready. I'm Rachel Cruze for Prager University.
The restaurant industry in the U.S. is vast and is a part of daily life in America - with 57 percent of us eating at a restaurant at least once a week. In fact, for the first time in recorded history, U.S. consumers are spending more money at restaurants than at grocery stores. With the restaurant industry growing and becoming more prevalent every year, here are 5 things you need to know about the restaurant industry: Number one: In 2016 there were more than 1 million restaurant locations in the U.S. and they generate annual sales of $780 billion. Number two: According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 2017 the restaurant industry employed 12 million people - enough to fill Chicago's Soldier Field almost two hundred times over. Number three: 425,000 of the 1 million restaurants located in the U.S. are either independently owned or ran by a franchisee - which means many of these establishments are considered small businesses. You see, while franchised restaurants are associated with a larger corporate body, the franchisee who owns and operates the establishment is not much different than the mom-and-pop diner down the street. Number four: The average profit margin for U.S. restaurants usually hovers between 4 and 6 percent - meaning for every dollar in sales, the business owner only collects 4 to 6 cents. However, profit margins have historically been known to drop to as low as 1.4 percent. Number five: 33 percent of restaurant revenue goes towards paying wages, which means that government mandated increases in the entry-level wage can be really hurt an independent restaurant owner or franchisee. A business owner can only raise prices so much before customers start going away. The restaurant industry plays a vital role in both the lives of ordinary Americans and the U.S. economy.
Do you want equality between men and women? I do. Which is why I own a gun. My Glock 43 is my equalizer. Too NRA for you? Then, let's take a step back and think about this. I will start with this premise: Men are physically stronger than women. I know: even this is controversial these days. But men have more muscle mass and greater bone density; they run faster and punch harder. It's called biology. If a woman is going to protect herself against a man who intends to do her serious harm she needs to even the odds. And what's the best way for her to do that? Own a gun and know how to use it. Given this, you would think that feminists would be lining up in front of gun shops, spending quality time at the shooting range, and filing for concealed carry permits. But when was the last time you heard a feminist speak out for women owning guns? You haven't, because feminists aren't for gun ownership. They're for taking guns away from women. Well, you might say, if no one owned a gun then everybody would be safer. Yes, and it would be nice if cheesecake was a diet food. There are over 300 million guns in the United States and that's not going to change any time soon. But even if we could build a giant magnet, fly it across the country and snap up every gun, it wouldn't much matter to women's safety. In Great Britain, where it's almost impossible to get a gun, a woman is three times more likely to be raped than in America, according to a study by David Kopel, a professor of constitutional law at Denver University. Here's another telling comparison between gun-free UK and gun-owning US. In the United States only about 13 percent of home burglaries take place when the occupants are home, but in the UK almost 60 percent do. Professor Kopel explains the disparity: American burglars . . . avoid occupied homes because of the risk of getting shot. English burglars prefer occupied homes, because there will be wallets and purses with cash. And, by the way, an assailant doesn't need a gun to be dangerous. What do you do if you're a woman and a man comes at you with a knife? Or just his bare hands? If you want to depend on pepper spray or a whistle, okay, but I think your finger on the trigger of a gun would be more effective. Take the example of mail carrier Catherine Latta. After she had been assaulted and raped by her ex-boyfriend, Latta tried to purchase a firearm. She was told it might take a month to get a permit. [I'll] be dead by then, she recalls telling the clerk. That afternoon, she went to a rough part of town and bought a handgun. Five hours later, her ex-boyfriend attacked her outside her home. She shot him in self-defense, and saved her life. I should add that firing a gun is very rare. Just carrying it -- let alone brandishing it -- is a deterrent. And, isn't that the issue? Personal safety? How is a woman supposed to defend herself? What if an intruder breaks into her home? Liberal TV personality Sherri Shepherd answered this question a few years ago. At one in the morning the alarm in our house went off, Shepherd told her co-hosts on the popular daytime show, The View. As the alarm blared, her husband, Sal, went downstairs to look around. If something happened to him, a terrified Shephard realized, she had no way to protect herself or her son Jeffrey. ...All I had was this wicker basket . [I] don't have a bat, nothing. We're going to get a gun,' I told Sal. [This] just made me realize how vulnerable you are if you can't protect your home. And the police [were] wonderful; they came about seven minutes later, but to me, that's seven minutes too late. Luckily for Shepherd, the incident was a false alarm. But there are a lot of cases where the alarm is real, especially in high crime areas. Yet every year, progressives push for more and more gun control without ever considering who will pay the price. It won't be the bad guys. They will always get the guns they want. It will be the good women who need to equal the odds in a dangerous confrontation with a man. Women owning guns shouldn't be a partisan issue. In fact, it's a women's rights issue. I'm all for equality between the sexes. And I practice what I preach. That's why I own a gun. I'm Katie Pavlich for Prager University.
Shutting down people you don't agree with is about as un-American as you can get. Rigorous debate, honest discussion, open exchange of ideas - that's the American way. But free thinking and speech are threatened today by a group with a sweet-sounding name that conceals a nefarious purpose. This group is called the Southern Poverty Law Center, or SPLC. Originally founded as a civil-rights law firm in 1971, the SPLC reinvented itself in the mid-80s as a political attack group. Every year now it produces a new list of people and charities it claims are extremists and haters. Aided by glowing coverage from the establishment media, the SPLC's hate list has become a weapon for taking individuals and groups they disagree with and tarring them with ugly associations. The SPLC employs a two-pronged strategy. First: find a handful of crazies, with barely any followers, no address, and no staff, and blow them up into a dangerous movement -- proof that there are neo-Nazis lurking everywhere. On their notorious Hate Map, the SPLC lists 917 separate hate groups in the U.S.! No one has even heard of more than a handful of them. The second strategy of the SPLC is to undermine legitimate political voices that they oppose, by associating them with extremists like the KKK. Take the charity known as the Alliance Defending Freedom. The SPLC lists them as a hate group. Is that fair? Well, the ADF has a network of 3,000 attorneys from all across the U.S. who've donated more than a million volunteer hours in defense of religious liberty. They've had a role in 49 victories at the U.S. Supreme Court. Putting the Alliance Defending Freedom on a list with 130 Ku Klux Klan chapters is not only wrong, it's malicious. According to the SPLC, one of the most influential social scientists in the U.S. - Charles Murray - is a, quote, white nationalist. Ayaan Hirsi Ali, perhaps the most eloquent spokesperson for the rights of Muslim women, is, to the SPLC, a toxic... anti-Muslim extremist. Scores of other individuals and charities active in mainstream conservative or religious causes have likewise been branded by the Southern Poverty Law Center as threats to society. Mind you, it is entirely fair to disagree with any of those folks. But it is utterly unfair to call them haters or extremists. The largest category listed by the SPLC as extremists -- with 623 entries -- covers groups like the Tea Party organizations that are wary of centralized government. Last time we checked, favoring smaller government was a mainstream and perfectly honorable American tradition. What is not honorable is the course prescribed by a leader of the SPLC, Mark Potok, who was caught on video proclaiming the organization's true intentions. He told a group of supporters, quote, the press will describe us as monitoring hate groups'. I want to say plainly that our aim in life is to destroy these groups, to completely destroy them. Portraying someone with political views different from your own as a public menaceis bullying. And it's a dangerous game. Instead of reducing hate and violence, the SPLC's name-calling directly incites it. In March 2017, Charles Murray was trying to discuss his acclaimed book Coming Apart at Middlebury College when he was violently attacked by protesters inflamed by the SPLC's labeling of him as a racist. A professor escorting Murray ended up in the hospital. In 2012, a gunman attempted mass murder at the Family Research Council, and failed only because the first man he shot managed to disarm him. The attacker told the police he acted because the SPLC had listed the Family Research Council as a hate group. It's a vicious irony: while promoting itself as a monitor of hate groups, the SPLC has in practice become a fomenter of hate. Yet the group rolls on, bigger than ever. What keeps them going? For one thing, the establishment media constantly quote them. Scare stories about right-wing stormtroopers are a sure way to attract eyeballs, and fit nicely with the media's own preconceptions of the dangerous reactionaries lurking out there in middle America. Second, alarmism is a great fundraising technique. Convincing people there are fascists everywhere has turned the SPLC into a cash machine. Last year, the group hustled $50 million dollars out of frightened liberal donors, adding to the $368 million dollars of assets they were already sitting on. So, the next time you see the Southern Poverty Law Center quoted in the news, just remember: the masterminds behind the SPLC aren't eliminating hate; they are fueling it. I'm Karl Zinsmeister for Prager University.
Did President Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal economic policies pull the country out of the Great Depression? My research clearly suggests that the answer, contrary to popular belief, is no. In fact, the New Deal made matters worse. Let me explain. The centerpiece of Roosevelt's New Deal plan to fix the economy was the National Industrial Recovery Act, or NIRA, which the President announced with great fanfare in June of 1933. FDR believed that he could use the government to artificially raise both prices and wages. It would work like this: higher prices would raise profits - that makes business happy; and higher wages would raise income - that makes workers happy. More profits for business means more money to hire new workers. Higher wages for workers means more money to buy consumer goods. A virtuous cycle is set into motion and the economy improves rapidly. But here's what FDR missed: Artificially raising wages also raises labor costs. And when labor costs go up, business hires fewer workers or no workers at all, especially in a difficult economic environment. Meanwhile, artificially raising prices reduces demand for the obvious reason that people buy less of something when its price goes higher. So, why did FDR do this? FDR based his New Deal policy largely on what happened during World War I, which had ended only 15 years earlier, in 1918. During that war, the government established planning boards to set wages and prices, and economic activity increased. If it worked during wartime, FDR reasoned, it should work during peacetime. But Roosevelt confused the economic activity that was actually the result of inflated war demands as being due to government planning. The government, Roosevelt concluded, could much better manage the economy in a time of crisis than private enterprise, which, in his worldview, only considered its own selfish interests. Therefore, government guidance - not free enterprise - was Americans' steadfast ally. Contrary to what you might think, big business, including autos and steel, were happy to go along with FDR's plan - at least, at first. If the government was going to ensure their profits, who were they to complain? So, instead of prohibiting monopolies - something the government is actually supposed to do - the NIRA created monopolies on the condition that these favored industries immediately raised wages significantly and bargained collectively with labor. Not surprisingly, the Supreme Court declared the NIRA unconstitutional in May, 1935, stating that FDR violated constitutional separation of powers. He had meddled in an area - private business - where he had no constitutional right. But the decision had little practical effect because the government simply ignored it. Meanwhile, the wage side of the equation rose faster than expected because of the passage of another New Deal Law, the 1935 Wagner Act. The Wagner Act provided unions with new collective bargaining rights. And as the labor unions grew in size and power, so did workers' wages. The result was that between 1933 and 1939, these government policies - the NIRA and the Wagner Act - increased prices and wages by about 20 percent. These artificial price and wage increases impeded what should have been a strong recovery from the Depression. They prevented the natural forces of competition from pushing prices down and pushing worker productivity up. Instead, artificially high wages led industry to hire few workers, and high prices reduced demand for products. If these policies had not been adopted, my research, as well as research by other economists, indicates the economy would have returned to its normal level of employment and output by 1936. In other words, the policies that were supposed to restore prosperity actually prolonged the Depression. I'm Lee Ohanian, Professor of Economics at UCLA for Prager University.
It's now okay for a man to hit a woman. That, in effect, is what the a mixed martial arts league decided when it allowed Fallon Fox, a biological male, to fight as a woman simply because he identifies as one. And the consequence of this decision? Fox sent female fighter Tamikka Brents to the hospital with a broken skull and a concussion. Brents needed seven surgical staples to bind her wounds. The battered woman, a trained fighter herself, said of her match with Fox, I've never felt so overpowered in my life. Twenty years ago, if a man hit a woman so hard that he sent her to the hospital, he'd be in prison. Now he can get paid for it. Today we are told that male and female are one and the same. This denial of male-female differences has led to the astonishing belief that men and women are not born male or female; they are whatever gender they say they are. Facebook went so far as to offer its users over 50 genders to choose from. Know what a demi-boy is? Me, neither. The idea that gender-identification is now a personal choice might sound enlightened to some, but it's actually a very anti-scientific view of one of the essential facts of life: men and women are inherently different. Their brains are different, their hormones are different, their chromosomes are different, and, of course, their bodies are different. No amount of peer-reviewed papers from gender studies departments can change this. But that won't stop the progressive elites who run our universities, news media, many of our biggest companies, and even our high schools and elementary schools from trying. For their efforts, women will pay an especially high price. That's because the men-and-women-are-the-same argument invariably leads women to be judged against a male standard. Or, to put it another way, to be more of a woman, a woman has to be more like a man. She has to want to have casual sex like a man; to serve in combat like a man; to pursue a career with single-minded intensity like a man. Of course, there are exceptions, but the overwhelming majority of women aren't seeking casual sex; don't have the physical strength of men; and don't share the same work-life priorities as men. Ironically, this quest for sameness is occurring at a time when science is telling us, more emphatically than ever, that we are different. So, what your grandmother took for granted men and women are different science now confirms. But there is no room for science in, say, stores like Target or Toys R Us, where toys are no longer divided into the boy section and the girl section. Or in a North Carolina school district, where students can no longer be called boys and girls but only students. Or in college dorms, where co-ed bathrooms and even co-ed bedrooms are increasingly common. For the tiny percentage of people who experience gender dysphoria, we should have nothing but compassion. We should do everything we can to help them and protect their dignity, but we don't need to overturn biologically defined sex differences to do so. But that's what's happening. Using the wrong pronoun at the office might get you fired. In Canada, it might land you in court. In mixed martial arts, as we have seen, it can lead to getting your head bashed in. Apparently, this is a small price to pay in a world where we must all genuflect to political correctness. Even after being hospitalized, Tamikka Brents knew she had to toe the PC line. When asked how she explained why she lost so badly to a man who said he was a woman, she said: I can't answer whether it's because she was born a man or not, because I'm not a doctor. Vice Magazine, writing about the incident, had no sympathy for Brents. Why should they? As they wrote, biological sex isn't black and white. But in virtually every instance, it is. The longer we allow the obvious to go unstated and undefended, the worse it will be for boys and girls, and for men and women. But especially for women. The sexes are different. Rather than trying to quash this reality, which can only lead to more needless confusion and suffering, not less, we should step back and marvel at it. And enjoy it. Male-female differences are among the most wonderful things in life. I'm Ashley McGuire for Prager University.
Countless books, seminars, and gurus promise to teach you the secrets to success. Well, here's my secret: There are no secrets to success. Actually, it's pretty simple. Want to excel in whatever you do? Get to work. Keep working. And don't stop until the job is done. That's called work ethic. I'm the sideline reporter for NBC's Sunday Night Football. I won't lie it's a dream job. But it isn't a dream-come-true. There's no fantasy involved. Just a lifetime of hard work. I had my first real job at 13. I was a paper-girl. I delivered newspapers to people's homes and sold subscriptions door-to-door. That job taught me persistence. I learned that to succeed, especially in sales, you have to knock on a lot of doors. In high school, I worked at Baskin Robbins. The manager didn't appreciate it when I gave out overly-generous portions to customers. That taught me accountability. Until you run the show, you answer to the person who does. A few years later, I worked as a telemarketer for an insurance company. A lot of people look down on telemarketers. I don't. If you think a legitimate job is beneath you, you don't deserve that job or any other. Like all telemarketers, I was rejected far more often than not. Usually, I didn't get past the first sentence. But sometimes I did enough to make some good money. The path to success is paved with failure. As a waitress in college, I learned that you need to smile and treat customers well, even when you're having a bad day. Leave your mood at the door, or expect to be shown the door. After I graduated, I had seven jobs count em, seven! One of those was a public relations assistant in Los Angeles. It was fun, but it involved ridiculously long hours. That was okay, though. I got used to it. And when long hours were called for later, I was ready. I went from PR to producing a morning radio show. The host had talent. We put out a good product. But it wasn't enough because timing and luck are also important, and you can't control those. You can only control what you do. You just have to keep working. What choice do you have? The radio show gave me the idea that I could be a host the talent. I put together a demo and sent it out to every station I could find an address for. I finally caught the eye of a sports show in Charlotte, North Carolina. I decided that I would never think of myself as a female sports reporter, but just as a sports reporter. My ambition is to be the best sports journalist, period. What does being a woman have to do with it? As the newbie, I was at the station all day, and took every assignment that I could, especially the ones no one else wanted. After five months, TV stations noticed I was scooping their stories and started calling. One of those was CBS Sports. I took that job. It was a huge jump, and it put me under a microscope. I wasn't used to that. I made a lot of mistakes some honest ones, and some really dumb ones. All of them were public. My bosses didn't hold back their displeasure, and neither did the viewers. This pushed me to screw-up less and taught me how to deal with criticism. Mistakes are life's way of highlighting what you need to improve. So I kept making mistakes, and I kept improving. After 5 years, I was offered a job at ESPN. After 10 years there, I joined NBC, where I am now. After all of that a lifetime of work I think I've learned what it takes to succeed. Whether it's your first job or your dream job, the formula is always the same: Get to work. Keep working. And don't stop until the job is done. That's the secret that's not a secret to success. I'm Michele Tafoya for Prager University.
Maybe you've heard someone say that Israel is an apartheid state. That Israel has a policy of segregating and oppressing the minority population within its borders like South Africa once did. Maybe you've been so outraged by this information that you have considered joining the BDS movement -- the effort to boycott, divest and sanction Israel until it ends its alleged racist policies. I don't blame you. Apartheid is a great evil and deserves to be fought wherever we find it. But here's the thing: You won't find apartheid in the State of Israel. So, I'll put it bluntly: The BDS movement is a slick propaganda effort built on lies. I think I have the credibility to make this claim. Having grown up in South Africa, and having spent a fair amount of time in Israel, I know what apartheid is and what it is not. My parents were raised under real apartheid where blacks were, by law, separated from whites at every level, from education to drinking fountains. Blacks couldn't vote, couldn't own land, couldn't live next to, or use the same transportation system as whites. I remember my father telling me about how my grandfather was kicked and humiliated in public by a young white boy. All he was permitted to say was, Please stop, little boss. That was the world my family lived in. That was the world of apartheid South Africa. But in Israel, the law is color-blind. Israeli Arabs have the same rights as Israeli Jews. They ride the same buses, study in the same schools, and are treated in the same hospitals. Arabs are elected to Israel's parliament, serve as judges, and fight in the Israeli military. On my first trip to Israel, the group I was with had a Jewish tour guide and an Arab bus driver. Imagine our surprise, having heard that Israel is an apartheid state. This would have been inconceivable in apartheid South Africa. All these things would be self-evident to anyone who did any kind of actual research, or, even better, visited Israel -- something I encourage everyone to do. BDS doesn't want you to do research or visit Israel. It depends on the ignorance of its audience. Sadly, on American college campuses, BDS has a significant presence. It succeeds by playing on the good intentions of good people through deliberate deception. In short, they lie. And lies really make me angry because lies empower evil. Lies about blacks empowered apartheid in South Africa. Lies about Jews made the Holocaust possible. And lies about Israel are misleading a lot of good-hearted young people into opposing the only country in the entire Middle East that doesn't segregate and oppress its minority population. Just ask the next Egyptian Copt or Iraqi Christian you meet on campus. So, the question people should really be asking is: What does the BDS movement want? The answer is simple. They want to destroy Israel. They can't do it militarily, so they try to do it through lies. They say that Jews have no historic claim to Israel. Lie. They say that Israel treats its Arabs as second-class citizens. Lie. They say that Israel doesn't want peace with its Arab neighbors. Lie. If you tell lies, and you tell them often enough, people who don't know the truth start to believe them. The BDS movement's leaders barely try to hide this charade. They will lie and say that they only want a Palestinian state living side-by-side with Israel, and then they say this: We oppose a Jewish state in any part of Palestine. Ending the occupation doesn't mean anything if it doesn't mean upending the Jewish state itself. That's from Omar Barghouti, a founder of BDS. Barghouti lives in Israel, so you might expect that he said this from inside an Israeli prison, like Nelson Mandela during South African apartheid. You would be wrong. Barghouti is a PhD student at Israel's Tel Aviv University, where he enjoys the same rights as every Israeli. My parents could only dream of that kind of freedom. Is Israel a perfect country? No. There are as many perfect countries as there are perfect people. But to call it an apartheid state is not only an insult to the only democracy in the Middle East and the only country with equal rights for all its minorities, it's also an insult to the actual victims of apartheid -- like my parents and all those who suffered under it. I'm Olga Meshoe for Prager University.
If Democrats and Republicans can agree on anything it's stagnating wages. Median family income dropped from $57,790 in 2000 to $56,516 in 2015. To address the problems, some have pushed to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour. But only 1.7 percent of the 77 million hourly employees even earn the minimum wage, and just 395,000 are over the age of 25 and earning entry-level wages for entry-level work like cashiers and waiters. What activists don't tell you is that raising the entry-level wage increases labor costs for small business owners making it harder for them to keep employees, and hire new ones. This makes it harder for younger employees to gain the skills they need to climb the career ladder, and earn much higher incomes. Instead of concentrating on raising the floor for low-skilled jobs, we should be focusing on helping people get the skills to raise the ceiling of what people can make. The real fight should be for true middle-class jobs that earn $50,000 or more a year, what we call the Fight for 50. These jobs allow people to save more money, and better support their families. There are going to be 2.5 million of these middle-skill job openings next year. These career opportunities require more than a high school degree, but less than a four-year college degree, boasting an average salary of $50,000 per year. These jobs include automotive technicians, nurses, and plumbers. While entry-level employees don't have the necessary skills to succeed right away in higher-paying roles, they often learn them quickly. One of our most famous politicians started out by scooping ice cream at a Baskin Robbins, and made it all the way to the Oval Office in the White House. In other words, the entry-level wage should be thought of as a training wage, which employees with few skills can use to prepare for a $50,000 a year, or more, career. Let's raise wages by putting Americans back to work, and fighting for $50,000.
Do you think the United States and Western Europe are made up of imperialist, colonialist, resource-exploiting, greedy, grasping, brown-skin-hating people whose values are not worth defending? If you think this question is absurd and that no one thinks this way, you would be very much mistaken. Many people do. And what's even more disturbing, many of these people were born and live in the West. In other words, they have come to despise their own culture. This thinking is the product of a doctrine widely taught in our schools. It's known as multiculturalism, the belief that all cultures are equal. Or to put it another way, no culture's values, art, music, political system, or literatureare better or worse than any other. But is this really true? Some years ago, Nobel-prize winning novelist Saul Bellow created a major controversy when he said, Find me the Tolstoy of the Zulus, or the Proust of the Papuans, and I would be happy to read him. For this, Bellow was accused of racism. The charge was nonsense. Bellow wasn't saying that the Zulus and Papuans are incapable of producing great novelists. He was saying that, as far as he knew, they hadn't. But just by raising the possibility that some cultures have contributed more than others, he violated the chief tenet of multiculturalism. More recently, President Donald Trump expressed a similar sentiment in Warsaw, Poland. We write symphonies. We pursue innovationWe treasure the rule of law and protect the right to free speech and free expressionWe empower women as pillars of our society and of our success That is who we areThose are the priceless ties that bind us togetheras a civilization. For this, Trump was roundly condemned by the multiculturalists. How could he say these things, one writer wrote, as if these were unique qualities to white-dominated nations, instead of universal truths of the human race across all cultures. Here's the problem: Are values such as innovation, rule of law, free expression and women's empowerment equally held across all cultures? If all cultures are equal, how does one account for the fact that, for the last 500 years, it has been one culture - the culture of the West, and now of America - that has shaped the world? Multiculturalists explain it in terms of oppression. Western civilization, they say, became so powerful because it is so evil. The study of Western civilization, they insist, should focus on colonialism and slavery the unique mechanisms of Western oppression. But colonialism and slavery are not uniquely Western at all. They are universal. The British conquered India and ruled it for 300 years. But before the British, the Persians, the Mongols, the Muslims, and Alexander the Great had done exactly same thing - conquered large parts of India. Indeed, the British were the sixth or seventh colonial invader to occupy India. As for slavery, it has existed in every culture. It was prevalent in ancient China, in ancient India, in Greece and Rome, and in Africa. American Indians practiced slavery long before Columbus set foot here. What is uniquely Western, in fact, is not slavery, but the abolition of slavery. And what distinguishes the West from all other cultures are the institutions of democracy, capitalism, and science. These institutions developed because of a peculiar dynamism of Athens and Jerusalem a synthesis of classical reason and Judeo-Christian morality. And it is these institutions, I believe, that comprise the source of Western strength and explain the West's long-standing dominance in the world. The West's greatest strength is not merely its military power, but also the unparalleled power of its ideas and institutions. But what about America? If America is a nation of immigrants -- mostly non-white immigrants -- doesn't that, by definition, make it a multicultural society? No. America is a multi-ethnic society. We don't want it to be a multicultural society. I'm an immigrant from India. My wife is an immigrant from Venezuela. Despite our differences of ethnic background, we have both assimilated to the unique values of America -- the values embodied in our Constitution and our laws. The pursuit of happiness. The American Dream. So, no -- the United States and Western Europe are not made up of imperialist, colonialist, resource-exploiting, greedy, grasping, brown-skin-hating people. Our values are worth defending -- not just because they are ours, but because they are good. I'm Dinesh D'Souza for Prager University.
I have no self-esteem. I'm not saying I dislike myself, or that I have a problem with my self-image. And I don't have low self-esteem. I'm just saying that I have no self-esteem at all. Why? For the same reason that I have no pet unicorns. Self-esteem is a fantasy. It's a meaningless fabrication that exists only in your imagination. The dictionary defines "esteem" this way: To regard with admiration. Self-esteem, therefore, means to regard yourself with admiration. But is that how we should see ourselves? If someone asked you who you admire, would you really want to answer, Well, I admire myself"? Would that be a good thing? I would say no... emphatically. I was hardly a precocious kid, but I think I realized this self-esteem thing was a racket as far back as junior high. I remember when the guidance counselor at my school handed out a worksheet and asked us to rate our self-esteem on a scale of 1 to 10. Meanwhile, kids in China were learning silly things like math and science. Now we're bankrupt and they own the country. But at least we all feel pretty good about ourselves. In any case, there we were, facing the important task of arbitrarily quantifying our egos. When I asked my teacher why I should have high self-esteem, she said, Because you're special. When I asked why I was special, she said, Because you're you! I found this an odd statement at the time, coming as it was from the woman who'd just given me a D on my last math quiz. Most of my classmates, though, quickly jotted down nines and tens. Incidentally, some of them would grow up to be unemployed alcoholics, but I'm guessing if they could take that test again, they'd score themselves exactly the same. See, that's the whole point of self-esteem: to be proud of yourself even when there's no reason to be proud of yourself. Of course, apologists will claim that self-esteem is simply about confidence, and that you need confidence to succeed in life. Okay. But if self-esteem is simply about confidence, then why don't we just call it confidence? Because confidence must be earned. A student is confident about doing well on a test if he studies for it. An athlete is confident on the field if he practices. A singer is confident in her abilities if she, in fact, has abilities. Self-esteem, on the other hand, can be defined as unearned confidence. The person with high self-esteem (also known as a narcissist) feels good about himself on the basis of nothing. We may ask him: "Why do you esteem yourself?" And his learned response will be: "Because I'm me." Like a modern day Narcissus, he can't see the world outside the window because he's too busy whispering sweet nothings to his reflection in the glass. In a saner, less confused time, people saw it the opposite way. It didn't matter how you felt about yourself; it mattered what you did. Funny that's what my parents taught me. I remember one time explaining very carefully to my dad that he couldn't expect me to do my math assignment because math made me feel bad about myself. In return, he suggested that maybe I should study more and then math wouldn't make me feel so bad. But in the meantime, he said, it doesn't matter how you feel. Do your homework. It doesn't matter how I feel? What a scandalous notion. I probably should have called social services. If this self-esteem thing was just another benign form of entertainment, we could just laugh it off. But it's become a serious problem because this I'm special, love yourself, you get points for breathing dogma taints everything it touches. It equips you for nothing. It won't help you at school; it will stifle your career ambitions; and it will certainly wreak havoc on your relationships. Sure, insecurity and self-doubt can also be defeating, but at least there's a chance that they might drive you to be better. Self-esteem actually prevents improvement, because you can only improve if you first acknowledge what you're not good at. But that process might take a toll on your self-esteem, so many people avoid it. I'm not saying that you should hate yourself, and I'm not saying that you should have low self-esteem. I'm saying have no self-esteem as in, stop thinking about it. Period. Do good things with your life and you'll have all the esteem you'll ever need. I'm Matt Walsh for Prager University.
Over the last 400 years, what power has done the most to spread the ideals of limited government, an independent judiciary, certain inalienable rights, and free markets? That power would be the British Empire. It was Britain that gave these ideals to the United States. It was the British Empire, the largest empire the world has ever known, which made these ideals global aspirations. It was the British Empire, along with America, that defended these ideals in two colossal world wars. Freedom was an Englishman's right - and wherever he went, he took that right with him. Whether he was an English colonist in America, governing himself through a locally-elected assembly; or an English adventurer, like Sir Stamford Raffles, creating the free-market city-state of Singapore; or an English officer, like T.E. Lawrence, leading Arab tribesmen against the Turks, the British always thought of themselves as liberators, as bringers of freedom. The British believed the final and necessary justification of their empire was a moral one. The British kept the peace; they brought sound, honest administration; and they insisted that basic moral standards were honored. The British did not try to nation-build in the way we think of it now. They were under no illusions about making Arabs or Afghans or Zulus into Englishmen. They were more than content to leave people alone, to let them be themselves, to govern them with the lightest possible hand. In American history, we remember this when we think of the British Empire's so-called "benign neglect." We can see it throughout the history of the British Empire. Think about the vast territory of the Sudan - it was governed by 140 British civil-servants. Even Gandhi praised the British Empire, paraphrasing Jefferson, saying that he believed that the best government was the government that governed least, and that he found that the British Empire guaranteed his freedom and governed him least of all. In the defense of freedom, the empire drew moral lines. No power did more to abolish slavery and the slave trade in the modern world than did the British Empire. The British treasury spent enormous sums to liberate slaves and compensate slave-owners in the Caribbean. The Royal Navy had, as a primary duty, the eradication of the slave-trade - and, in fact, abolishing the slave trade become a major factor driving the expansion of the British Empire. The British enforced a Pax Britannica, putting down pirates, taming headhunters, and keeping the peace between previously warring tribes and religions. While respecting - and often ruling through - local leaders, the British still insisted on certain Judeo-Christian moral standards. They were not, in that respect, multiculturalists. They had a firm sense of right and wrong. When Sir Charles Napier was confronted by the practice of suttee widow-burning in India, he told the Brahmin priests involved that he understood it was their custom. But the British had a custom, too: They hanged men who burned women alive, and their goods were confiscated. So, if the Brahmins insisted on continuing their tradition of widow-burning, then he would insist on following his British tradition of hanging the murderers of widows. Widow-burning in India soon ceased. But we don't have to dig far into history, into the abolition of slavery and widow-burning, to find the British Empire on the side of moral right and freedom. We can think of events within our own lifetimes or those of our parents and grandparents. When we think of the two deadliest threats to freedom in the twentieth century, we generally think of Communism and Nazism. But how many remember that in 1940, after the Hitler-Stalin pact, and after the fall of France, one power, the British Empire, stood alone in mortal combat against the combined tyrannies of the world. Even where the British have merited criticism, as in Ireland, there is more to the imperial story. During negotiations to create the Irish Republic, for instance, British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, who could speak Welsh, reminded the Irish nationalist and Gaelic extremist Eamon de Valera that the Celts never had a word for "republic." It was an idea given to them by the English. This is our own history, too. If you love America, you should also love the power that gave us our sense of inalienable rights - rights traceable back to Magna Carta. It all started in America with the British Empire, a great, liberty-loving empire. It is the empire's legacy - the English-speaking world - that remains the great global guardian of freedom today. I'm HW Crocker for Prager University.
Americans carry many different forms of insurance. There's car insurance, home insurance, life insurance, even pet insurance . . . Most of these insurance policies work well and are fairly priced. But there is one glaring exception: health insurance. Only health insurance becomes more complicated and more expensive at the same time. So, the obvious question is: why? To answer this question, we have to start at the beginning. What is insurance? It's pretty straight-forward: You pay a monthly fee which provides financial protection against unforeseen, sometimes catastrophic, events. People buy homeowners insurance, for example, to protect themselves from the financial loss incurred in the event of a fire, a flood or theft. Because millions of people are paying into the insurance pool, the pool has enough money to cover the unlucky person whose house does burn down. And since insurance is meant to share risk, it only stands to reason that higher-risk individuals have to pay more to be insured. Someone who has had two accidents is going to pay more for car insurance than someone who has never had an accident. Why? Because their track record indicates they are more likely to have another accident. But while insurance provides a bulwark against unforeseen loss, it does not protect against routine expenses. Car insurance protects you in the event that you wind up in a car wreck or your vehicle is stolen, but it doesn't cover routine maintenance like oil changes, replacing brake pads or tire erosion. Why? Because everyone needs routine oil changes, new brake pads, and new tires. So, there is no risk to protect against. Health insurance in America works very differently. Many of us have health insurance plans that aren't insurance at all. They're really pre-paid health care plans. They cover routine check-ups, less serious illnesses, and recurring expenses like prescription medications in addition to protecting you from a health disaster. All of this has made healthcare much more expensive and complex than any other form of insurance. That is true whether you get your insurance through your employer, through the government, or if you pay for your own plan. The Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, was passed on the promise that it would fix these issues and bring down healthcare costs. But it has actually made the problem much worse. First, it limited the variety of health insurance plans private companies could offer. It did this by mandating that every plan had to cover the same set of ten health benefits, including preventive care, maternity care, mental health care, and contraception. Second, Obamacare prevented insurers from charging premiums based on the risk they were assuming. A person with a much higher risk of getting sick couldn't be charged more than a person with a much lower chance. These two aspects of Obamacare requiring all policies to have certain coverages and not allowing insurance companies to charge more for riskier clients caused the price of insurance to rise dramatically. In Arizona, for example, the price more than doubled between 2016 and 2017 alone. So, how do we undo this mess? By making health insurance more like, well, insurance. First, stop making people buy plans that include things they won't use and don't want. Second, allow health insurers to offer more options at different prices. Do these two things and you'd make health insurance a lot more affordable for a lot more people. And what about people with pre-existing conditions for whom every insurance plan is just too expensive? We do what any compassionate society does: we make sure they get the medical care they need. But we don't need to upset the whole concept of insurance and make healthcare more expensive for everyone else to do it. Most Americans want to do the responsible thing and insure themselves against catastrophic health care emergencies. But with health insurance costs rising every year, being responsible is becoming more difficult. I'm Lanhee Chen, research fellow at the Hoover Institution, for Prager University.
The next time you hear someone complain about capitalism, consider this: The percentage of people living at starvation level poverty has fallen 80% since 1970. Before then, more than one in four people around the world were living on a dollar a day or less. Today, it's about one in twenty. This is the greatest anti-poverty achievement in world history. So, how did this remarkable transformation come to pass? Was it the fabulous success of the United Nations? The generosity of U.S. foreign aid? The brilliant policies of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank? Stimulus spending? Government redistribution? No. It was none of those things. It was capitalism. Billions of souls around the world have been able to pull themselves out of poverty thanks to five incredible innovations: globalization, free trade, property rights, the rule of law, and entrepreneurship. Globalization means the ever-increasing ability to move goods, people, and ideas from one distant location to another. Free trade is open access to markets and people from all over the world with few, if any, barriers. Property rights is ensuring that what belongs to you can't be taken away on a whim by the state. The rule of law safeguards contracts, assuring that they will be respected and lived up to whether the deal is made in Peru or Poland. And entrepreneurship is the creativity of free people to dream up new products that we never knew we wanted or needed. It's worth noting that in places like East Asia, these five things were all made possible by the historic peace after World War II that resulted from America's global diplomatic and military presence. Let me put this in a slightly different way: The ideals of free enterprise and global leadership, central to capitalism and American conservatism, are responsible for the greatest reduction in human misery since mankind began its long climb from the swamp to the stars. This remarkable progress has been America's gift to the world. So, if these American conservative ideals have done so much to lift up the world's poor, you would think conservative ideas would be gaining strength every single day everywhere. And not just gaining strength among conservatives, but also among young idealists, immigrants, minorities, and advocates for the poor - all embracing the principles of free enterprise and unleashing its power on behalf of the vulnerable. But this hasn't happened. To the contrary, capitalism is struggling to attract new followers. Indeed, some believe it's destined to fade away just as it has in much of Europe. According to a Harvard Study, only 42% of young Americans 18 to 29 have a favorable view of capitalism. What explains this discrepancy between the incredible results of capitalism and its popularity? Why does capitalism get such bad rap? One answer is simple: The defenders of free enterprise have done a terrible job of telling people how much good the system has done around the world. Capitalism has saved a couple billion people, and we have treated this miracle like a state secret. According to a 2013 survey, 84 percent of Americans are unaware of the progress made against poverty worldwide. Indeed, more than two-thirds think global hunger has actually gotten worse. This ignorance has consequences because there is no substitute for capitalism and the five innovations that make it work. Years of economic research tells us no other system comes close. Certainly, not communism; not even socialism. You need a system that works while you sleep. One that creates the foundations of human prosperity without central planning or benevolent bureaucrats. More capitalism, more growth. The formula might seem deceptively simple but it works. So, how we do lift up the next billion? The answer should be clear: If you really want to help the poor, stand up for capitalism. I'm Arthur Brooks, president of the American Enterprise Institute, for Prager University.
Once there was a South American country with a promising future. It had a functioning democracy, a rapidly developing economy, and a growing middle class. All the important indicators, including education, health care, and foreign investment, were pointed in the right direction. It was far from perfect, but the mood was hopeful and with good reason. But now all that promise is gone. The country is a failed state, a hollowed-out shell of its former self. Services like power and water are sporadic. The most basic consumer goods, from bread to toilet paper, are in chronically short supply. Crime has skyrocketed. Freedom of the press is almost non-existent. Democracy has been replaced by a virtual dictatorship. The country is, I'm sorry to say, my beloved Venezuela, a place in which my family has deep roots. I can tell you what happened to it in one word: socialism. In 1999, then-candidate for president Hugo Chavez promised to lead the people of Venezuela to a socialist paradise. His theme was Esperanza y Cambio Hope and Change. Venezuela is a nation of great wealth, Chavez said, but it's being stolen from its citizens by the evil capitalists and the evil corporations. This wrong would be righted, he assured the voters, if they elected him. And they did. To their everlasting regret. Chavez drew inspiration from his mentor, Fidel Castro. Like his mentor, he enjoyed giving speeches some that lasted as many as seven hours! He even gave himself his own weekly television show where he would spontaneously break into song. Here's a rule: When your nation's leader starts singing on national television, you're in trouble. Under Chavez, the government of Venezuela took over industry after industry. The government, he assured everyone, would run these businesses better than private enterprise, and the profits would be shared by the people. With great fanfare, he tore up contracts with multinational oil and gas companies and demanded that they pay much higher royalties. When they refused, he told them to leave. They did. His image was burnished by Hollywood celebrities who flocked to see the great work he was doing taking money from the rich and giving it to the poor. Progressive politicians from the US and Europe also praised him lavishly. Here's another rule: When Hollywood celebrities visit your country to praise your leader, you're in trouble. When the leader sings on national television and is praised by Hollywood celebrities, you're doomed. Socialism always works in the beginning, so people are fooled...in the beginning. It's easy for governments to confiscate money, but eventually there's no more money to confiscate. In the case of Venezuela, I mean that literally: People who could get money out of the country, did. Many left the country altogether nearly 2 million, according to Venezuelan sociologist Toms Pez. The wealth creators continued to create wealth, but they created it somewhere else Miami or Madrid and other places around the world. When Chavez first ran for President in 1999, he said he would leave in two years if people weren't happy with him. But, like Castro, Chavez never had any intention of giving up power. He died in office in 2013, replaced by his vice president, Nicolas Maduro. Maduro is Chavez without the charisma or the voice. The country is now a pariah, shunned by the world and isolated. It's so bad that many international airlines refuse to fly there. People stand in lines for hours just to get food. Sometimes they walk away empty-handed. A recent survey found that 75 percent of Venezuelan adults lost weight in 2016 an average of 19 pounds. This national weight-loss program is known cynically as the Maduro diet. Still, Maduro holds onto power. Opposition leaders and journalists who report the truth are jailed. Venezuela is a cautionary tale. Once a country goes down a socialist path, there's no easy way back. And the longer a country stays socialist, the harder it is to reform it. Venezuela has been socialist for two decades. If you don't think it can happen here, whether here is the United States or Europe or anywhere else, you're fooling yourself. When people get used to depending on the government no matter how poor they remain that dependency is hard to break. That's why you should never buy the socialist lie. Socialism is a drug. And like a drug, it feels great at first. But eventually it will ruin your country. Just like it ruined Venezuela. I'm Debbie D'Souza for Prager University.
Progressive politicians love to talk about raising the minimum wage. It makes them sound caring, compassionate, concerned. They're on the side of the worker, standing against the greedy employer. The current call is for a national $15 an hour minimum wage, more than double the current federal rate of $7.25. A number of cities and states are already there including New York, California, Washington D.C. and Seattle. Others are considering it. The left casts the minimum wage debate as a war between employee and employer. But, most business owners pay their workers as much as they can. Finding and keeping good people is the hardest part of any employer's job. I know. For 17 years, I ran CKE restaurants, the parent company of Carl's Jr. and Hardees. Our company and franchised restaurants employed over 75,000 people, but, as with most retail businesses, our profit margins were razor thin. Based on my experience, if we adopt a national minimum wage of $15, here's what will happen: 1. A lot of people will lose their jobs or have their hours reduced. According to a 2014 Congressional Budget Office study, just a $10 minimum wage would cost half a million jobs as businesses terminate employees. Obviously, far more jobs would be lost at $15 an hour. To survive, employers would have to reduce hours even for workers who manage to keep their jobs... That's a pay cut. 2.Businesses will close and the jobs they created will disappear. A recent report from researchers at the Harvard Business School found that each $1 increase in the minimum wage results in a 4-10% increase in the likelihood of restaurants closing. An over $7 an hour increase to $15 would be devastating not only for restaurants, but for small businesses and their employees. 3. Young people will lose that entry-level job opportunity. My first job was scooping ice cream at a Baskin-Robbins in Cleveland, Ohio in the 1960s. I was paid just $1 an hour. But it taught me valuable lessons like the importance of showing up on time, teamwork, and presenting a happy demeanor to customers. No one can get that better job until they have their first job. 4. The cost of all workers will have to go up. If you hire a dishwasher at $15 an hour, your cooks will be unhappy with their wages. You're going to have to pay everybody more, which increases labor costs across the board. That's more pressure on profits. Too much pressure and you're out of business. 5. Fewer people will open businesses. $15 an hour is a very steep hill to climb. Would-be entrepreneurs will do the math on labor costs and realize it's just not worth the risk. This is a real cost to the economy that we can't measure. A company that never exists, never employs anyone. 6. Prices for everything will go up as businesses pass higher labor costs along to consumers. One of two things will happen. Either consumers won't pay the higher prices and businesses will lay off workers or close. Or consumers will pay higher prices, and have less money to spend elsewhere. Either way the higher minimum wage will represent a drag on the overall economy. Now, this may sound like doom and gloom. But it's already a reality for many business owners and workers in the cities and states that are raising the minimum wage. In San Francisco, AQ, a 2012 James Beard Award finalist for the best new restaurant in America, saw rising labor costs drive its profit margins down from 8.5% in 2012 to 1.5% by 2015. So, it shut the doors. Jeremy Merrin's chain of Cuban restaurants in New York closed two locations because of minimum wage increases and has raised prices at the restaurants he's still operating. The minimum wage, he said, is going up too fast We can't catch our breath. Kevin McNamee is a chiropractor in California. I'll be moving my two companies out of Los Angeles, he wrote in a letter to the New York Times. When the city compels me to pay employees $15 an hour, it comes out my pocket. Last year, my employees made more than I did. These stories are already all too common. Expect them to become more so as cities and states pile on the $15 minimum wage bandwagon. So, if a $15 minimum wage doesn't help workers and doesn't help employers, who exactly does it help? Well, maybe just the progressive politicians who manage to mislead voters into believing that it's the right thing to do. Sounding caring, compassionate and concerned is all well and good. But having a job is better. I'm Andy Puzder for Prager University.
Historically, education in the United States has been split between private schools, and traditional public schools. However, this dynamic changed in 1991 when Minnesota passed the first law establishing charter schools in the state. Since then, a majority of states have some kind of charter school system. But what exactly is a charter school? Charter schools offer education ranging in grades K-12 without charge to students. Charter schools are funded with tax dollars, but are generally subject to fewer rules and regulations than traditional public schools, and they usually receive less public funds per pupil than public schools. Charter school students typically take the same state-required standardized tests as public school students. Depending on state law, these schools can be started by parents, teachers, non-profit groups, corporations, or even government organizations. Charter schools may focus on specific skills and subjects like math or science, or may be aimed at students who require alternative learning methods -- such as teaching lessons that use visual or more hands-on approaches. But these entities just can't start one whenever they please. They must first obtain authorization from either the school district, city, or state -- depending on how the charter school laws are structured. And the charter school model has achieved various levels of success. Over the past 25 years, the number of charter schools in the U.S. has skyrocketed, forcing more competition and faster improvement among existing public and private schools. As of 2016, there are almost 7,000 charter schools serving 3 million students. And since 2000, charter school enrollment has increased by 600 percent. But as charter schools have become more popular, opposition has grown. Teachers unions and other public school activists argue that charter schools take money away from traditional public schools. However, it's unfair to hold minority parents and students hostage in underperforming public schools. Overall, charter schools have provided an entrepreneurial challenge to the status quo and delivered results that make it worth expanding this option for parents. According to a 2015 Stanford study, not only do charter schools provide significantly higher levels of growth in math and reading for all students, but minority and low income students benefit disproportionally more. Charter schools are becoming a bigger part of the U.S. education system every year -- and for millions of American families they offer a much-needed choice that's different than a one-size fits all public school. Every other sector of the American economy has benefited from the ability to compete and improve -- why not Education?
The Iraq War was an absolute disaster a historic mistake. That's probably what most Americans not to mention most people around the world would say. But is it true? President George W. Bush's decision to invade Iraq in 2003 is subject to fair debate. But it's important to recall that, at the time, the war had overwhelming bi-partisan support in the House and Senate. Dozens of allied countries joined the coalition. That support, however, quickly faded as casualties mounted and the war started to bog down. Criticism then turned to blame when the weapons of mass destruction that were expected to be found were not. Nothing seemed to be going right. I know I was there, serving as a lieutenant in the United States Army. As 2007 dawned, President Bush faced a near total collapse in both public and political support for the war. He had to make an impossibly difficult decision: accept strategic defeat and leave Iraq in chaos, or send even more troops into battle. He chose the latter, a decision that came to be known as The Surge. The Democrats predicted disaster. Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader at the time, said, This war is lost and the surge is not accomplishing anything. Senators Joe Biden, John Kerry and Hillary Clinton agreed. They were all wrong. Led by General David Petraeus, and supplemented by 30,000 additional troops, American forces and their Iraqi counterparts reversed the course of the war. It was one of the most stunning and successful turnabouts in modern military history. In 2008, I returned to the country to see for myself. I had seen the before. I could hardly believe the after. Attacks on US forces were down 90%. American casualties were rare. Baghdad's most dangerous neighborhoods were secure. Al Qaeda in Iraq was decimated. The oil was flowing again. Iraqis were rebuilding. And new elections were held. This was the Iraq that President Barack Obama inherited when he took the oath of office on January 20, 2009. Now, Iraq was certainly no Western-style democracy, but it was - as General Petraeus dubbed it - a functioning Iraqracy. So much so that, in a February 2009 speech to Marines at Camp Lejeune, President Obama said: The relative peace and strong participation in January's provincial elections sent a powerful message to the world about how far Iraqis have come. Vice President Joe Biden was even more enthusiastic a year later, when he said in February 2010: I am very optimistic about Iraq. I think it's going to be one of the greatest achievements of this administration. To put it mildly, it wasn't. So, what went wrong? It started when the Obama Administration got into a dispute with the Iraqi government over something called a Status of Forces Agreement. The Iraqis said they wanted to be able to prosecute American soldiers who broke Iraqi law. Appropriately, the Obama Administration said no; we will prosecute our own law-breakers. But instead of continuing to work towards an agreement, the president, against the advice of his own generals, ended negotiations. President Obama had said during his campaign that he would bring all the troops home, and the status-of-forces dispute gave him the perfect excuse to do just that. On Dec. 18, 2011, the last U.S. soldiers crossed the border into Kuwait. The United States military was out of Iraq. The Iraq War was over for America, but it was about to begin again for Iraqis. Islamist terror, which U.S. soldiers had successfully crushed, returned with a new vengeance, most prominently in the form of ISIS. And the fragile peace between Sunnis and Shia fell apart. With America nowhere to be seen, Iraq's neighbor to the east and America's mortal enemy, Iran, filled the political vacuum while ISIS brutally exploited the security vacuum. Initially dismissed by President Obama as the jayvee team, ISIS took control of a large part of the country. Its black flag soon flew over Mosul, Fallujah, Ramadi, and many other cities that American troops had secured at such great cost. The war that George W. Bush had won, Barack Obama had lost. The painful lesson is this: resolve works, and retreat doesn't. When America commits to military victory, as it did during the Surge, it can defeat its enemies. But when America retreats for political reasons, it loses. And so do millions of others. I'm Pete Hegseth for Prager University.
Have you ever heard the old saying that a conservative is just a liberal who got mugged? Well I got mugged -- to the tune of $60,000 a year. It's called tuition. Like everyone who cons themselves into attending a liberal arts college, I was captivated by the idea of changing the world. I would immerse myself in a diverse pool of academic thought, theory, and action. Well, it didn't quite work out that way. Over the course of four years, I was transformed from a plucky, free-thinking free spirit into a cranky, get-off-my-lawn conservative. The process started not long after I arrived at my elite East Coast school. I thought I was there to expand my knowledge of the world; to debate the great ideas. I soon realized, however, that my professors had something else in mind. Invariably each class followed the same monotonous ritual: identify a problem say racism -- blow it up beyond all proportion, blame the problem on the white majority culture, and then offer an unworkable solution, usually involving the government. Everywhere I turned I saw political correctness. At first, I just rolled with it. Then, I got annoyed. Then, it started to tick me off. I was being brainwashed. Indoctrinated. And I was paying for the privilege with borrowed money. Almost every speaker who came to campus was a leftist journalist, a leftist activist, or a leftist professor from another leftist school. The ones who weren't leftists were just weird. One time, I attended a film lecture given by a very skilled paraplegic adult film star who showed us some of her art. Another time I went to a performance given by a woman who engaged in auto-eroticism behind a curtain. I couldn't deal with it the PC culture, the mono thinking, the weirdness. I needed some way to cope. So, I got high almost every day. Parenthetically, most of the worst stoners I knew are now working in finance or politics. In fact, this is what made me first realize that I was a fan of limited government. I do not trust these goofs to make policy. Their power must be constrained. This brings me to another black hole in the college experience: useless majors, the only thing more pervasive than marijuana and irresponsible future leaders. I'm not being judgmental here: I have a degree in film and media studies and political science. Why did I choose them? They're subjects I like talking about. Practical, right? But I wasn't alone. Most of my peers also chose to spend their student loan money on subjects better learned on YouTube or Turner Classic Movies. By the time graduation approached, none of us had developed any actual job skills. And people want to raise taxes to pay for free college for everyone? Are you kidding me? No. Just, no. I'd only give a free education to a smart kid who promised to get a degree in whatever the exact opposite of my degree is. And that degree didn't come cheap. I took on tens of thousands of dollars of debt, but never spent a minute learning how to manage it. No such classes were offered. I might have actually learned something useful if they had been. I didn't learn about taxes either, other than that the rich didn't pay their fair share. It was only after college, when I was lucky enough to get my first job, that I discovered the truth: the government takes away a lot of your money. Frankly, it's shocking. And that's not even counting the mandatory $400 a month deduction for my student loans. I'll be probably have that albatross around my neck for the rest of my life. Really, I can't believe my peers and I spent so much time shaming conservatives for wanting to lower taxes. A past version of myself would call this desire to keep what I earn selfish. The current, cheerfully realistic version of me knows this: I can spend my money much better than the politically correct stoners who are running the government can. So, I guess, in a roundabout way, I did get something of value out of my expensive liberal arts education after all. Common sense. I'm Jay Stephens for Prager University
There are almost no issues where I don't understand both sides: taxation, the size of government, abortion, socialism, capitalism. As strongly as I feel about any issue, I understand the opposition. But there is an exception: the death penalty for murder. Here, the gulf is unbridgeable between those of us who believe that some murderers and I emphasize some murderers should be put to death and those who believe that no murderer should ever be put to death. Take this example: On the afternoon of July 23, 2007, in the town of Cheshire, Connecticut, two men broke into the home of Dr. William Petit, his wife Jennifer and his two daughters. The men beat Dr. Petit nearly to death with a baseball bat; one of the men raped the doctor's wife; and the other man sexually assaulted their 11 year-old daughter, Michaela. The two men then strangled Mrs. Petit to death, tied down the two daughters on beds, doused them with gasoline, and, while the girls were still alive, set the house on fire. Dr. Petit survived, but his wife and daughters did not. Those opposed to capital punishment believe that these two men have a right to keep their lives. So, is there anything a person can do to deserve the death penalty? To those opposed to capital punishment, the answer is no. In fact, many opponents of capital punishment believe that killing murderers is the same as murder. You heard me right most opponents equate the murder of an innocent family with putting the murderers of that family to death. Opponents of capital punishment also argue that keeping all murderers alive sanctifies the value of human life. But the opposite is true. Keeping every murderer alive cheapens human life because it belittles murder. That's easily proven. Imagine that the punishment for murder were the same as the punishment for driving over the speed limit. Wouldn't that belittle murder and thereby cheapen human life? Of course, it would. Society teaches how bad an action is by the punishment it metes out. And what about the pain inflicted on the loved ones of those murdered? For most people, their suffering is immeasurably increased knowing that the person who murdered their family member or friend and who, in many cases, inflicted unimaginable terror is alive and being cared for. Of course, putting the murderer to death doesn't bring back their loved one, but it sure does provide some sense of justice. That's why Dr. Petit, a physician whose life is devoted to saving lives, wants the murderers of his wife and daughters put to death. In his words, death "is really the only true just punishment for certain heinous and depraved murders." Is the doctor wrong? Is he immoral? Well, if you think capital punishment is immoral, then Dr. Petit is immoral. And what about opponents' argument that an innocent person may be executed? This argument may be sincerely held, but it's not honest. Why? Because opponents of capital punishment oppose the death penalty even when there is absolute proof of the murderer's guilt. If there were a video of a man burning a family alive, opponents of capital punishment would still oppose taking that man's life. Moreover, by keeping every murderer alive, many MORE people are murdered - other prisoners, guards and people outside of prison in case of escape or early release -- than the infinitesimally small number of people who might be wrongly executed. And now, with DNA testing and other advanced forensic tools, it is virtually impossible to execute an innocent person. Then there is the argument offered by some people in the name of religion that only God has the right to take human life. I always wonder what religion these people are referring to, since the holiest book of no religion of which I am aware ever made that claim. People just made that argument up. So, if you're on the proverbial fence on this issue, please ask yourself this question: Do you really believe that the torturers, rapists, murderers of Dr. William Petit's wife and daughters, and evil men like them, deserve to keep their lives? If you're like most people, your answer is no. Your heart, your mind, your whole being cries out for some justice and fairness in this world. But, if you really do believe these people deserve to keep their lives, well as I said at the outset, I don't understand you. I'm Dennis Prager.
We may be witnessing the death of America's car culture. And it's not dying of old age. People are still buying lots of cars. But there's been a concerted push by government bureaucrats and environmentalists to transform car ownership from a source of pride to a source of guilt. Ever since Henry Ford built the Model T, cars have been central to the American experience. That's because cars are more than just another way to get from point A to point B. They allow us to go wherever we want, whenever we want, with whomever we want. Think about it: with trains, planes, and buses, the routes are planned and the schedule is timed. Only cars allow you to be spontaneous. When you get behind the wheel, you are in control. You are free. The very reason people love cars personal freedom -- is also why regulators can't stand them. Government at all levels craves control. And when it comes to your car, they want you off the road. So do the environmentalists with whom they have made common cause. This antagonism toward America's car culture can be traced back to the 1970s. In response to the Arab Oil Embargo in the early part of that decade, Congress passed national fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks. These standards, known as CAFE (short for Corporate Average Fuel Economy), forced automakers to increase fuel efficiency. Rather than let the free market decide what kind of cars customers wanted to buy, the government decided to do the dictating. Their regulations have cost car companies and consumers many billions of dollars. But in the last decade or so, the government's heavy hand has come down harder than ever. Beginning in 2009, the Obama administration sought to dramatically increase CAFE requirements. These Obama-era standards make cars more expensive - around $4,000 per new vehicle, according to economists Salim Furth and David Kreutzer. This prices millions of middle-class families out of the new car market. The regulations also encourage the production of smaller, lighter cars, that are generally less safe than larger, heavier ones. The laws of physics are tough to argue with! To make matters worse, the new CAFE standards push automakers to produce more electric cars, a lose-lose for consumers and, ironically, the environment as well. Consumers lose because, according to a study from the consulting firm Arthur D. Little, electric vehicles cost significantly more to operate over their lifetime than comparable gasoline-powered cars -- around $20,000 more. And the environment loses because electric vehicles produce three times as much toxic pollution as gas powered ones when you factor in the mining of rare earth minerals that electric car batteries require. And this doesn't include the environmental consequences involved in ultimately disposing of these batteries. Adding insult to injury, a typical electric car gets fewer than 100 miles per charge and can take 4 to 8 hours to fully charge the battery. So much for the freedom of the open road. Maybe that explains why consumers have shown scant interest in these cars, despite hefty government subsidies and privileges. Still the regulators, bureaucrats and environmentalists persist. Urban planners are adding bike lanes, reducing parking spots, and pouring billions into more public transportation - all to get people out of their cars. Former Boston Mayor Tom Menino once declared, The car is no longer king before banning all cars in a popular downtown shopping district. Arlington, Virginia, a suburb of DC, actually encourages people to adopt a car-free diet and live in one of the county's urban villages. Seattle, meanwhile, plans to aggressively discourage driving by limiting parking spots, even though cars are an unavoidable part of work and life for most people, according to the Seattle Times. Time will tell if these regulations and strategies will work. Americans are explorers. We value our independence, and we've never been good at staying put, or being told where to go and at what time. Maybe that's why, despite the government's best laid plans, sales of trucks and SUVs are breaking records as low gasoline prices inspire people to drive more and buy bigger vehicles. Why shouldn't they? Personal car ownership is part of America's fabric. It brings people together, and makes this big country of ours seem a little smaller and more free. America's car culture isn't deadyet. So long as Americans still want to live in the Land of the Free, America's car culture will never die. I'm Lauren Fix for Prager University.
Once upon a time, every student of history and that meant pretty much everyone with a high school education knew this: The Democratic Party was the party of slavery and Jim Crow, and the Republican Party was the party of emancipation and racial integration. Democrats were the Confederacy; and Republicans were the Union. Jim Crow Democrats were dominant in the South; and socially tolerant Republicans were dominant in the North. But then, in the 1960s and 70s, everything supposedly flipped: suddenly the Republicans became the racists and the Democrats became the champions of civil rights. Fabricated by left-leaning academic elites and journalists, the story went like this: Republicans couldn't win a national election by appealing to the better nature of the country; they could only win by appealing to the worst. Attributed to Richard Nixon, the media's all-purpose bad guy, this came to be known as "The Southern Strategy." It was very simple. Win elections by winning the South. And to win the South, appeal to racists. So, the Republicans, the party of Lincoln, were to now be labeled the party of rednecks. But this story of the two parties switching identities is a myth. In fact, it's three myths wrapped into one false narrative. Let's take a brief look at each myth in turn. Myth Number One: In order to be competitive in the South, Republicans started to pander to white racists in the 1960s. Fact: Republicans actually became competitive in the South as early as 1928, when Republican Herbert Hoover won over 47 percent of the South's popular vote against Democrat Al Smith. In 1952, Republican President Dwight Eisenhower won the southern states of Tennessee, Florida and Virginia. And in 1956, he picked up Louisiana, Kentucky and West Virginia, too. And that was after he supported the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education that desegregated public schools; and after he sent the 101st Airborne to Little Rock Central High School to enforce integration. Myth Number Two: Southern Democrats, angry with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, switched parties. Fact: Of the 21 Democratic senators who opposed the Civil Rights Act, just one became a Republican. The other 20 continued to be elected as Democrats, or were replaced by other Democrats. On average, those 20 seats didn't go Republican for another two-and-a-half decades. Myth Number Three: Since the implementation of the Southern Strategy, the Republicans have dominated the South. Fact: Richard Nixon, the man who is often credited with creating the Southern Strategy, lost the Deep South in 1968. In contrast, Democrat Jimmy Carter nearly swept the region in 1976 - 12 years after the Civil Rights Act of 1964. And in 1992, over 28 years later, Democrat Bill Clinton won Georgia, Louisiana, Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky and West Virginia. The truth is, Republicans didn't hold a majority of southern congressional seats until 1994, 30 years after the Civil Rights Act. As Kevin Williamson writes at the National Review: "If southern rednecks ditched the Democrats because of a civil-rights law passed in 1964, it is strange that they waited until the late 1980s and early 1990s to do so. They say things move slower in the south -- but not t hat slow." So, what really happened? Why does the South now vote overwhelmingly Republican? Because the South itself has changed. Its values have changed. The racism that once defined it, doesn't anymore. Its values today are conservative ones: pro-life, pro-gun, and pro-small government. And here's the proof: Southern whites are far more likely to vote for a black conservative, like Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, than a white liberal. In short, history has moved on. Like other regions of the country, the South votes values, not skin color. The myth of the Southern Strategy is just the Democrats excuse for losing the South. And yet another way to smear Republicans with the label "racist". Don't buy it. I'm Carol Swain, professor of political science and law at Vanderbilt University, for Prager University.
No matter where you come from, what your job is, or where you stand politically, you have to pay taxes. Uncle Sam needs taxpayer dollars to pay for things like schools, fire fighters, and the military. There are all sorts of different taxes: income taxes, payroll taxes and sales taxes just to name a few. But individuals aren't the only ones who pay taxes - businesses pay income taxes too. Businesses that are set up as corporations pay taxes on their income at the US corporate tax rate of around 35 percent - one of the highest in the developed world. Countries like Ireland and Switzerland have corporate tax rates well under 25 percent, which can give companies based there a competitive advantage. But there's another taxed group that we're forgettingsmall businesses. There are 29 million of them in the US and they employ nearly 56 million people. That's a total of 85 million people dependent on the success of small businesses! Small businesses are most often set up as sole proprietorships, partnerships or another designation called an S-corp. But the money they make isn't taxed at the corporate rate. The profits earned by these small businesses are passed through to the owner and counted as individual income on their personal tax return. That's why you might hear small businesses referred to as Pass-throughs. These entrepreneurs can pay tax rates as high as 40 percent not including additional state and local taxes, that means many American small businesses are being taxed at a higher rate than businesses anywhere in the world. Why should you care? Because high taxes hurt small businesses ability to grow and expand, causing them to raise prices or even trim jobs to stay within their budget constraints. Lowering taxes for small businesses or pass-throughs results in the growth of small businesses - allowing them to provide more jobs and boost the economy for everyone. After all two thirds of all new jobs come from small businesses and lowering taxes can have a big effect on the entire economy for all Americans. So the next time you hear someone supporting an increase in tax rates on businesses, remember that very important group of small business owners and the 85 million people dependent on their success.
Why is the government so bad at healthcare? They've been at it for seventy-five years and still can't get it right. It's expensive. Access is spotty. It's mired in bureaucracy. And it's fraught with waste. Obamacare was supposed to fix all this, but instead, like every other government healthcare program before it, it just made things worse. Why? Because the government is a third-party payer. Let me explain. Suppose you are going to buy something for yourself. You have two priorities: price and quality. You want the highest quality for the lowest possible price. Say you're buying a television. You have many options: the size of the screen, the quality of the image, the price. Only you know which one best suits your needs and your budget. And a lot of companies are competing for your business. You do your research; you make your choice. This is called a first-party purchase the person paying is the person using. Now, let's suppose that either the price or quality is not controlled by you; in this case, you are buying something for someone else. You care about the price because you are paying for it, but you are a little more flexible on the quality. A good example would be a wedding gift say, a coffee maker. You might think, by the time it breaks they'll forget who gave it to them anyway the cheaper one will be fine. All of us have bought things for others we never would have bought for ourselves. We care about the price because we're paying for it, but not so much about the quality because we're not going to use it. Or, suppose that we're going to use something, but we're not going to pay for it. Then we're concerned about the quality because we're consuming it, but the cost is not as important because we're not paying for it. Any father who ever got roped into paying for an open bar at a wedding understands this program. Nobody ever orders the cheap stuff when it's free. These are called second-party purchases. The person paying is not the person using. And now, for the coup de grace: when it is not your money paying for something, AND you don't use it. Then you're not concerned about either the price or the quality. Suppose the boss gives you $150 to buy a door prize for the office party. In a store window, you see a six-foot tall stuffed frog marked $149.00 You think, Oh, that's perfect let's buy it. The raffle winner is awarded the six-foot frog. Everyone laughs at the gag. Now, this is called a third-party purchase a purchase that is made with money that is not yours (therefore you don't care about the cost) to buy something you're not going to consume (therefore you don't care about the quality). Here's the point: By definition, all government purchases are third-party purchases. The government spends other people's money on things it won't consume. It doesn't care about the price or the quality. Thus, there will always be waste in government spending. That is why, to paraphrase Abraham Lincoln, government should do only those things that a man can't do better for himself. If 300 million Americans were free to buy health insurance for themselves, just as they buy their own life and home and car insurance, then that little gecko on television would offer us health insurance with a little more coverage for a little less cost. And he wouldn't be the only one. Insurance companies and hospitals would be working night and day to get our business. Quality would go up, and prices would go down. It's already happened with laser eye surgery. It used to cost $2,200 per eye. Now it can cost as low as $500 per eye. That's the way free enterprise competition worksevery time. But when the government gets involved, costs go up, waste and fraud go up, essential medical services are denied or unavailable. These are the hallmarks of government healthcare bureaucracies around the globe. The sooner we make health insurance a first-party purchase again, the sooner Americans will get the health care they wantfinally. I'm Bob McEwen for Prager University.
I recently discovered something startling about myself. It turns out that I'm a racist, sexist, misogynist. This came as quite a shock to me. How did this happen? As a person of color, a single woman with a graduate degree who grew up poor in a home without a father, I had a clear political path to follow. And I followed it. I voted for Barack Obamatwice. After all, we share the same skin color. His father was from Africa. Mine was, too! What other reasons did I need? I was inspired to see a black man rise to the highest office in the land. I believed his ascent would herald a new beginning, a new era of racial healing and harmony. We would finally have that frank discussion about race that everyone always talks about. I was also inspired by his wife. I was thrilled to see such a strong, opinionated black woman take the national stage. But then something happened actually, several somethings. I realized there was a big contradiction in my own life. I considered myself a freethinker, but I was thinking exactly what I was supposed to. I decided to start asking questions. I belonged to several campus feminist groups. I was even teaching feminism to inner city girls. Part of that teaching involved making the case for abortion. These girls needed to know that they had the right to make decisions about their own bodies. Surely, I thought, that's empowerment. But one day I asked myself: Isn't it men who benefit most from consequence free sex? Doesn't that give them even more power over women? And, of course, abortion certainly doesn't empower the women it prevents from ever being born. When I began to ask my other feminist friends how they reconciled these issues, they just got angry. I was called antiwoman. Even by progressive men! But I'm not antiwoman, I thought. I am a woman! I just don't want to be a weak one. I want to be strong like Michelle. At about the same time, while I was a student at the University of Texas at Dallas, the UT Austin Department of African Diaspora Studies released a statement in which they said, and I quote, African Americans are disproportionately affected by the saturation of our society by firearms We demand that firearms be banned in all spaces occupied by black people on our campus. Wait a second, I thought. Why would you want to ban firearms only in black areas? Doesn't that mean that you either think black people are more dangerous than other people, or less worthy of protection? These questions did not endear me to my progressive friends. I was called a race traitor even by white people. But I'm not antiblack. I am black. I just want to be safe, like Barack. I realized I didn't have a good answer; I only had more questions like why were blacks doing so poorly in cities that had been run by Democrats for decades? Was it racism and sexism that was holding people back, or was it something else? The more questions I asked the less popular I became. But here's the funny thing. I started feeling better about myself. I decided that the very definition of empowerment required me to take responsibility for my own life. I wasn't going to be anyone's victim. Which meant I had to protect myself. So, I bought a gun. I started to advocate for gun rights. That cost me more friends. I joined the prolife movement and walked in The March for Life. More friends... gone. Then, I crossed the line. I voted Republican, the party that views me as an empowered individual, able to shape my own destiny, not as a member of a victim group. And that's how I became a racist, sexist, misogynist. I'm Antonia Okafor for Prager University.
Public schools aren't the answer for everyone. They weren't the answer for me. Schools in my neighborhood in Jacksonville, FL functioned less as places of learning and more as warehouses to keep kids off the street. I know I was one of those kids. I don't blame teachers, or parents. I'm not interested in blaming anybody. I'm only interested in making things better. And the only way to do that is to give parents and students a choice. If a student can't get the education they need at their public school, there has to be an alternative. Thankfully, there was for me. My early years in my Jacksonville school were not a success, to put it mildly. I seldom understood the lesson. I was often confused and frustrated. I'd ask my teachers questions, but it seemed to me that this just annoyed them. So, I stopped asking questions and I withdrew into myself. I failed third grade - twice. Fourth and fifth weren't much better. I lashed out by getting into fights with my classmates. D's and F's filled my report card. I was going nowhere. I was just another black kid in the warehouse. But fortunately for me, my life changed the summer before sixth grade. I went to live with my godmother. She had one overriding thought: to get me into a better school. A good education, she knew, was the only way to get out of the hole I had dug myself into. She didn't have any more money than my family did, but she had a plan. That was worth a lot. She knew about another school a private school. Using a tax-credit scholarship you can call it a voucher she enrolled me at Esprit de Corps Center for Learning. Esprit demands excellence from its students. It teaches them to be warriors for knowledge and for good values. The teachers at Esprit were invested in my success. They took the time to figure out why learning was so difficult for me, and they tailored their instruction to my learning style. Sound elite? It is. Sound expensive? It's not. In fact, Esprit actually spends less money per student than the public school I had attended. Instead of dreading my classes, I began to look forward to them. Instead of fistfights, I began doing community service work. I even earned the National Police Athletic League's Girl of the Year award in 2009. When it was time for me to apply to college, Esprit even helped me to research scholarships and apply for waivers so that I could take my college entrance tests for free. On June 5, 2010, I graduated from Esprit de Corps with honors, becoming the first member of my immediate family to earn a high school diploma, and eventually the first to earn a college degree, and then a Master's. Without school choice, none of this would have been possible. Why is it so hard to grasp? Why are so many people so resistant to children and parents having a choice of schools? The system, especially for economically disadvantaged kids, is broken. I've seen it up close. And I've seen what happens when it works better when there is choice. School choice allows parents who live in undervalued neighborhoods to pick the school that best works for their children. Of course, the opponents of school choice the politicians and the teachers' unions who profit off of keeping poor black kids trapped in the warehouse say it takes money away from students who need it the most. But does anybody believe that money is the problem? Washington DC, for example, spends over $20,000 per student. We don't need any more money. We need more choice. Let's challenge public schools to compete on quality. Only competition breeds excellence. Prosperous parents can choose where to send their kids to school: public, private, or charter wherever they have the best chance to succeed. Why shouldn't all parents have that choice? We have the money to make it happen. We just need the will. None of us deserve to be imprisoned by our ZIP codes. Education is the only way out of generational poverty. I'm a living example. Let's help redefine public education to make it work for everybody. There's only one way to do that: school choice. What are we waiting for? I'm Denisha Merriweather for Prager University.
What role should religion play in a free society? More and more people today would answer: none. That would not have been the answer of the Founders of the United States the men who fought the American Revolution and wrote the country's Constitution. To them the issue of religion and freedom were inextricably linked. You couldn't have freedom without religion. In fact, the political philosophy of the Founders necessitated a divine foundation. Thomas Jefferson makes this clear in the Declaration of Independence when he writes that all menare endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights. The purpose of government, Jefferson and his compatriots believed, was not to bestow rights; rather, it was to protect those rights already endowed upon human beings by God. But government isn't enough for a free society. A moral people is also required; that is, a people moral enough to police itself. Virtue or morality, George Washington observed, is a necessary spring of popular government. Thus, for the Founders, liberty was not merely the ability to do what one wanted; it came with moral demands and boundaries. They all accepted the rule of life expressed by Benjamin Franklin: Nothing brings more pain than too much pleasure; nothing more bondage than too much liberty. The Founders knew that the absolute enemy of freedom was ironically a freedom that was absolute and unrestrained. And where was this restraint going to come from? Their answer was religion, which for them because of when and where they lived was some variety of Christianity. Let Divines, and Philosophers, Statesmen and Patriots unite, Samuel Adams wrote, [in] instructing [citizens] in the Art of self-governmentin short, of leading them in the Study, and Practice of the exalted Virtues of the Christian system. The Christian system to which Adams refers is composed of Judeo-Christian values the values rooted in the Old and New Testaments, both of which were referred to by the Founders with equal conviction and frequency. Jefferson yes, the very same Thomas Jefferson who is so often portrayed as anti-religious confirmed this sentiment in his Notes on the State of Virginia, when he asked: [C]an the liberties of a nation be thought secure when we have removed their only firm basis, a conviction in the minds of the people that these liberties are of the gift of God? [And] that they are not to be violated but with his wrath? James Madison likewise affirmed the essential connection between religion and morality: The belief in a God All Powerful, wise, and good is. . . essential to the moral order of the world and to the happiness of man. . . John Adams believed that the doctrine of a supreme, intelligent, wise, almighty sovereign of the universe, a doctrine he credited to Judaism, was the great essential principle of all morality, and consequently of all civilization. And he applied this thinking specifically to the new nation he helped to create: OurConstitution, he said, was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other. As President, he replied to a letter from university students in a way that would surprise many today: Science, liberty, and religion . . . have an inseparable union. Without their joint influence no society can be great, flourishing, or happy. Meanwhile another Founder, Alexander Hamilton, looked at the French Revolution and saw something much different. That revolution, unlike the American Revolution, had devolved into violence and chaos. Hamilton believed he understood why. The anti-religious force it unleashed, he wrote, annihilates the foundations of social order and true liberty, confounds all moral distinctions and substitutes [for] the mild and beneficent religion of the Gospel a gloomy, persecuting, and desolating atheism. For the Founders, a free society divorced from religion simply could not work and would not survive. It is no wonder then that in his Farewell Address, George Washington chastised those who would claim to be patriots, and yet undermine the influence of religion: Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism, who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest props of the duties of men and citizens. The Founders did not demand that anyone believe in any particular religion or even in God quite the contrary. But while they understood the value of a secular government, they feared a secular society one without religion. So should we. I'm Joshua Charles, writer and researcher at the Museum of the Bible, for Prager University.
You've probably heard a lot of people recently screaming and yelling about Fake News. Charges fly from all points on the political spectrum: this story is mistaken - it's Fake News; that statement is incorrect - it's Fake News. But to my mind, these arguments miss the point. Mainstream American news is ALL fake because the major news outlets are so consistently biased toward the left that whether any given story they report is factual or not, their overall reportage is essentially leftist propaganda. You can complain about the right-wing slant of Fox News all you want, but left-wing ABC, CBS, NBC, MSNBC and CNN have, combined, almost ten times the viewers. Look, the chief journalist at ABC is former Clinton operative George Stephanopoulos; the president of CBS News is David Rhodes, the brother of a former senior Obama staffer. Comcast, which owns NBC, is run by a major Democrat donor. Same for the leadership at CBS and Time Warner, which owns CNN. Only seven percent of American journalists identify as Republican. And while a lot of news outlets forbid their reporters to donate to candidates, 96 percent of those who did donate last time out gave to Hillary Clinton. These journalists claim that despite the fact they're all Democrats, they can be objective. It just ain't so. Psychologists have shown that when people associate almost exclusively with those who agree with them, they suffer from groupthink and confirmation bias and lose their ability to see events clearly. Now, it's not that these journalists are liars, exactly it's that their bias skews their reporting in very specific ways. Let me give you Andrew Klavan's Three Rules of Mainstream Media Journalism. These can transform any story, whether it's true or not, into Fake News. Rule Number One: Whenever left-wing prejudices are confirmed by a single event, that event is treated as representative. But whenever left-wing prejudices are contradicted by a single event, that event is treated as an isolated incident and if you treat it as representative, you are deemed to be hateful. So, for instance, a white cop shoots a black suspect. The mainstream media treats that story as representative of general police racism even though studies show cops don't use deadly force more often on blacks than on whites. On the other hand, if a Muslim commits an act of terrorism, and someone is bold enough to point out that the terrorist act is, in fact, representative of the daily acts of Muslim terror around the world, this is considered Islamophobic. The leftist media cherry-picks when an event illustrates a larger narrative. That's Fake News. Rule Number Two: When a scandal breaks on the right, the news is the scandal. When a scandal breaks on the left, the news is: who wrongfully disclosed that scandalous information? Thus, when the media wanted to raise suspicions that Donald Trump was somehow in league with the Russians, they freely quoted illegally leaked information from intelligence sources. But when Congressman Devin Nunes announced he had information that the Obama administration might have misused intelligence against Donald Trump's transition team, the story became: How did Nunes get that information? And did he do it legally? The scandal meter is heavily weighted to fall to the right. Fake News. Rule Number Three: Individual extremists on the right are highlighted, but the overall extremism of the left is ignored. In one of the fakest Fake News stories in recent history, the mainstream media rose up as one to tar conservative Tea Party members as racist, when all they really wanted were lower taxes and less government spending. Reporters gave the Tea Party disparaging nicknames; represented their almost universally peaceful gatherings as ugly and violent; and whenever an individual Tea Partier said something wrong, it was cited as evidence that the movement itself was tainted. Meanwhile, the continually violent, vandalizing, anti-Semitic socialist movement that went by the name of Occupy Wall Street was hailed by journalists as an important social development right up to the moment it vanished without a trace (except for the piles of litter its protesters left behind). Peaceful Tea Partiers wanted the small government prescribed by the Constitution, so they were radicals; violent Occupiers wanted the widespread government intrusion of socialism, so they were heroes. Very Fake News. Newsweek Editor Evan Thomas was once criticized when his magazine essentially convicted some white Duke University lacrosse players of raping a black woman - a rape, it turns out, they did not commit because it didn't happen. Thomas defended himself, saying, The narrative was right, but the facts were wrong. The mainstream media almost always get their left-wing narrative right, whether the facts support it or not. That's called confirming your own prejudices. It's called bias. It's called Fake News. I'm Andrew Klavan for Prager University.
He was one of America's most popular presidents -- handsome, charismatic, a war hero. He believed a strong military was the best guarantor of peace; he explained that cutting taxes was the best way to grow the economy; he firmly opposed racial quotas, and was horrified by the idea of unrestricted abortions. Can you name him? Here's one more clue: He was not a Republican. The answer is: John F. Kennedy. When he was elected president in 1960, Kennedy's views were considered mainstream in the Democratic Party. But while the Kennedy name is still revered by the Democrats today, the policies he espoused are not. Ronald Reagan, America's 40th president, who was a Democrat much of his life, famously said, I didn't leave the Democratic Party. The party left me. So, if Kennedy were alive now, which party would he belong to? It's impossible to know, of course. But we can compare his political positions to those of today's Democratic Party. On race: JFK disliked the idea of using racial preferences and quotas to make up for historic racism and discrimination. Today, affirmative action is Democratic Party orthodoxy, but Kennedy thought such policies were counterproductive. I don't think we can undo the past, Kennedy said. We have to do the best we can now...I don't think quotas are a good idea...We are too mixed, this society of ours, to begin to divide ourselves on the basis of race or color. On taxes: Kennedy was an ardent proponent of across-the-board tax cuts, believing that more cash in the hands of all Americans, including the so-called wealthy, and a lighter footprint from the IRS would grow the economy. A tax cut means higher family income and higher business profits, Kennedy said in an address to the nation shortly before his death. Every taxpayer and his family will have more money left over after taxes for a new car, a new home, new conveniences, education and investment. Every businessman can keep a higher percentage of his profits in his cash register or put it to work expanding or improving his business. On foreign policy: Kennedy was very firm about his red lines. When the Soviet Union built missile sites in Cuba, leading to what is known as the Cuban Missile Crisis, Kennedy threatened a decisive military response. The Soviet Union backed down. JFK believed, as Ronald Reagan did, in peace through strength, not strength through peace. In his inaugural address, Kennedy made the case for a strong U.S. military. He saw this as the only way to deter America's enemies. Only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt, he said, can we be certain beyond doubt that they will never be employed. On gun rights: Kennedy was one of eight U.S. presidents who was a lifetime member of the NRA. Here's what he said about the Second Amendment: We need a nation of minutemen citizens who are not only prepared to take up arms, but citizens who regard the preservation of freedom as a basic purpose of their daily life, and who are willing to consciously work and sacrifice for that freedom. On abortion: Kennedy was assassinated a decade before the landmark Supreme Court case Roe v. Wade. Abortion was not a major issue during his administration. But we do know that he nominated Justice Byron White, a Democrat, to the Supreme Court. White was one of two justices who dissented in Roe v. Wade. We also know that Kennedy abhorred Japan's post-WWII use of abortion as a means of population control, saying: "On the question of limiting population: As you know, the Japanese have been doing it very vigorously, through abortion, which I think would be repugnant to all Americans." Today, if a Democrat advocated the positions on race, taxes, foreign policy, guns and abortion that our 35th president once did, he wouldn't be a Democrat. He'd belong to that other party. I'm Larry Elder for Prager University.
Healthcare costs are skyrocketing. Since the Affordable Care Act passed in 2010 health care costs have gone up by double digits each year. The health care bill did get more people insured and helped with issues like preexisting conditions, but the problem with the healthcare law isn't what it tried to do, it's what it failed to do: reduce costs. The solutions to the cost problem is with the free market and competition. Here are just three ideas that could make a huge difference. Number 1: We can roll back the tax burden on insurance companies. The ACA added a $60 billion tax on health insurers, which made them have to charge more to consumers to cover their costs. Taxes roll downhill so a tax on insurers means higher costs for all of us. Number 2: We can lower the regulations on health plans. The ACA has a lot of requirements that force insurance plans to cover an incredibly big list of benefits. If you want a bare-bones insurance plan that simply covers catastrophic events like a car accident or cancer you currently can't get one. By boosting the benefits of every plan it restricts competition and drives up prices by forcing smaller health insurers out of the marketplace. Low-cost catastrophic plans that are normally purchased by younger, healthier people are no longer available because of the ACA requirements. Introducing as many health insurers to the marketplace as possible can drive down prices by encouraging businesses to compete to cut costs. The ACA did the exact opposite: Less competition and higher prices. Number 3: Encourage medical innovation. The cost to bring a new drug to market already exceeds two and half billion dollars. And the ACA places an additional twenty-two billion dollar tax burden on innovator drug companies, the same businesses that produce lifesaving medications and cures for those in need. Punishing drug producers forces them to charge even higher prices to make up for the lost money in research, development, and taxes. If we encourage, not punish drug makers it will lead to more breakthroughs and lower costs--a win, win for all of us. As healthcare costs skyrocket, don't forget that the free market is our best chance to rein them in.
When you hear the word transparency, what comes to mind? Chances are that you associate the word with a lot of good things, like openness, honesty, accountability, and maybe even integrity. In a better world, those associations would be accurate. But in the world of the progressive left, transparency means something very different. And you need to be aware of that meaning or you risk becoming a victim of it. Everybody on the left and the right agrees that transparency in government is a good thing. With the exception of issues involving national security, the government should be transparent in its dealings. The public has a right to know what the government is doing with your tax dollars. But transparency means something completely different when it comes to the private, non-government, realm. Take, for example, where you chose to donate your money. Transparency in this case means that there is a public record of your donation. Now, this might sound okay, but it isn't. Why? Because it puts you on the radar of your political opponents and makes you a potential target. Scott Eckern was a theatre director in Sacramento, CA who gave a $1,000 donation to support the traditional definition of marriage. Maybe you don't agree with Scott's position. That's your right. But the LA Times didn't just disagree, they put every single donation made by people like Scott online. Scott Eckern lost his job, and others faced boycotts and blacklisting, all because of "so called" transparency in an area of life that should be private. Through most of our nation's history, what happened to Scott Eckern wouldn't have happened: if you made a political donation, your identity was not exposed. But under pressure from the left, this is changing. In New York, for example, it's now the law that if a non-profit organization advocates against a position taken by an elected official, it must disclose to the government the identities of all the organization's significant donors. Faced with this prospect, most people would just as soon avoid the risk altogether. Safer, in other words, to keep your mouth shut and your checkbook closed. Even when state officials promise to keep this donor information confidential, you can't trust them. In 2015, the California attorney general, Kamala Harris, now a U.S. Senator, demanded that nonprofits disclose their donor lists to the state, and then her office "accidentally" posted this private donor information online. But even if the government kept that information secret, it's none of its business. Because while transparency is a government obligation, privacy is an individual right. How do we know? Because of the First Amendment. In the 1950s, the state of Alabama tried to force the NAACP, to disclose its membership lists. This demand came at a time when civil rights activists faced physical threats and economic reprisals for standing up for basic human rights. Fortunately, the Supreme Court stepped in and ruled unanimously that the First Amendment protected their right of freedom of association, and that included protection from prying eyes. Progressives say we need transparency to expose the so-called dark money behind non-profits and political candidates they don't like. Exactly what those racist bigots said about contributions to the NAACP in the 1950s. Anonymous speech has been a blessing for this country. Anonymous pamphleteers helped launch the American Revolution. Anonymous writers helped ratify the Constitution. Anonymous activists helped liberate black Americans from the oppression of Jim Crow. But if we're not careful, anonymity will soon be a thing of the past. If the message is you have free speech to address the issues, but only if you don't care about the consequences, then fewer people will speak freely. And for those on the left, that's just fine. In fact, that's the intent. Here's what David Callahan writes in the left-leaning journal, Inside Philanthropy: If the donors can't [take the heat], they can choose not to give. So, now you're wise to the game. The next time you hear a politician or an activist talking about transparency, ask a simple question: Who should be transparent? If he says the government, tell him yes. If he says you, the private citizen, tell him no. Your speech is your business. I'm David French for Prager University.
You love capitalism. Really you do. And you can't stand big government. Really you can't. Don't believe me? Then I'll just have to prove it to you. Do you use an iPhone? Android? Macbook? PC? Read on a Kindle? Watch TV and movies on Netflix? Videos on YouTube? Shop on Amazon? Listen to Spotify? Search on Google? Send money on Venmo? Grab a ride with Uber? Drive with Waze? Book a room with Airbnb? Are you on Facebook? Or Instagram? Or Snapchat? You probably use many, if not all, of these things, and, if you're like me, you love them. In today's world, they're practically necessities. Where do you think they came from? From entrepreneurs with great ideas and the freedom to test them in the marketplace. That is what is known as . . . capitalism. Now consider some other things you probably use: Have you been to the DMV? Gone through airport security? Mailed a package at the Post Office? Called the IRS customer service line? Or called any government office, for that matter? What's different? Why is going to the Apple Store so fun, but going to the DMV so painful? Because one has nothing to do with the government, and one is the government. One needs to satisfy its customers to survive and grow. One doesn't. The purpose of government is not to create products. And we don't expect it to. But if you thought about it for a few moments, you'd realize you don't want the government involved in just about anything private business can do. That's because profit-motivated individuals have to work to please their customers. You. Government agencies don't have to please anyone. Call that IRS service line, if you doubt me. Can you imagine if Steve Jobs had to seek government approval for every new design of the iPhone? We'd have been lucky to get to iPhone 3G. Look at Uber. Just a few years ago, summoning a private driver in a few minutes who would take you where you wanted to go was truly a service available only to the wealthiest people. But now, thanks to capitalism, private rides are an affordable option for ordinary people all over the world. Until Uber came around, if it started to rain in, say, Manhattan and you wanted a grab a cab, good luck. Too many rain-drenched people and too few cabs. Uber had a better idea. Rain falls. Demand for rides spikes. Raise prices to incentivize more Uber drivers to hit the road. Ride-in-the-rain problem solved. Airbnb is another example. Only a few years ago, if you were going on vacation with your friends or family, hotels were just about your only option. But hotels are expensive, and often don't provide all that much in terms of space, amenities, or interesting neighborhoods. If you wanted to, say, find out if individual homeowners were making their homes or apartments available for a few nights, you'd have to scour internet postings. But then Airbnb came along, giving anyone with a computer or smartphone access to over 2 million homes in 190 countries. You can find places with hot tubs and pools; or, if you're on a tighter budget, you can rent a room, or even just a couch. Government never could have done this. What motivation would it have? How would it even know we wanted services like Uber or Airbnb? We didn't know it, until risk-taking entrepreneurs made it possible. Thanks to capitalism. And no thanks to government which, more often than not, just gets in the way. Why? Because the government's knee-jerk reaction is to regulate and control everything it can regulate and control. Otherwise, what would be the purpose of many government agencies and all those bureaucrats? Cities across the world are putting up barriers to slow down or shut down services like Uber and Airbnb. Rulemaking may be the only area where the government shows creativity. Economic growth has the best chance of happening in the absence of that rulemaking. As economist Adam Thierer explains, the internet, to use just one important example, was able to develop in a regulatory climate that embraced what he calls permissionless innovation. This approach to regulating allows entrepreneurs to meet their customers' needs without first seeking government approval. In sum, almost everything you enjoy using is a product of capitalism; almost everything you can't stand is a product of big government. So, do you love capitalism? Of course you do. You practice it every day. It's time to preach it. I'm Jared Meyer of the Manhattan Institute for Prager University.
When was the last time you heard a child referred to as obedient? It's probably been a while. That's too bad because the best research tells us that obedient children are happy children. And, from my experience as a family psychologist, the parents of obedient children are happy parents. Since all parents want their children to be happy, the question becomes: How does one get a child to obey? Is there some trick to it? Well, there are certainly are a lot of parents who think so. They believe that proper discipline is a matter of using the right methods, techniques, and strategies: what I call consequence delivery systems. Parents have been using these behavior-modification-based methods since they became popular in the 1960s seemingly to no avail. Would anyone argue that today's kids are more obedient than kids were several generations ago? I don't think so. The reason these methods and techniques don't work is that proper discipline is not a matter of proper methods. It's a matter of a proper attitude on the part of the parent. Let me illustrate the point. Let's say that for a week I observe the classroom of a grade school teacher who has the reputation of being the best disciplinarian in her district. She consistently has fewer behavior problems than any of her colleagues. What is she doing? She's making her expectations perfectly clear. Which means, first, she communicates in simple, declarative sentences. She doesn't use fifty words when she could use ten. The more words you use to communicate your expectations, the less confident you sound. Second, she prefaces her instructions to her students with authoritative phrases like I want you to and It's time for you to She says, It's time for you to take out your math books and turn to page 25 as opposed to Let's take out our math books and turn to page 25. Okay? Third, this teacher does not explain the motives behind her instructions to her students. Why? Because she knows that explanations invite arguments. Whenever parents tell me they're dealing with an argumentative child I know that these well-intentioned people are explaining themselves. They tell their child why they want him to pick up his toys, for example. And he argues, because you can always pick apart an explanation. If you don't explain yourself when you give an instruction to a child, then the child, being a child, is almost surely going to ask for one. He's going to ask Why? or Why not? At which point get ready for a big surprise your answer should be Because I said so. These very useful four words and no, they will not cause psychological damage to your kids; quite the contrary -- are a simple, but powerful affirmation of the legitimacy of your authority. Say it calmly. Don't scream it. Nothing good is ever accomplished by a person who screams. Last, but certainly not least, when giving instructions to a child, do not let me repeat do not bend down to the child's level. Getting a child to do what he or she is told is a matter of looking and acting and talking like you have complete confidence in your authority. Bending down to a child's level does not look authoritative. It looks, in fact, like you're one movement away from being down on your knees in front of a king. I know, you've read somewhere that you should get down to a child's level when you talk to him. Well, all I can tell you is that there's a lot of really bad parenting advice out there. And that's but one example. Speak to children from an upright position. That causes them to look up to you. And that is a good thing: for them and for you both. I'm John Rosemond, author and family psychologist, for Prager University.
Every sensible immigration policy has two objectives: 1) to regain control of our borders so that we decide who enters; and 2) to find a humane way to deal with the 11 million illegal immigrants who now live among us. Start with the second. For both practical and moral reasons, America cannot and will not and should not expel 11 million people. That leaves us with two choices: ignore them or figure out a way to legalize them. Ignoring them hasn't worked. But there is also a huge problem with legalization: it creates an irresistible incentive for new illegal immigrants to come. We say, of course, that this will be the very last, very final, never-again, we're-not-kidding-this-time amnesty. And everyone knows it's phony. That's what was said in 1986, when we passed the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform. It turned out to be the largest legalization program in American history -- nearly 3 million people got permanent residency. There was no enforcement. We now have 11 million new illegal immigrants in our midst. The irony of this whole debate, which bitterly splits the country, is that there is a silver bullet that would not just solve the problem, but also create a national consensus behind it. A vast number of Americans who oppose legalization and fear new waves of immigration would change their minds if we could radically reduce new -- i.e., future -- illegal immigration. And we can. First, build a barrier. Call it a wall. Call it a fence. Call it what you will. Add cameras and sensors. Add drones. Beef up the patrols. All that matters is that we regain control of the border. Fences work. The triple fence outside San Diego led to a 90 percent reduction in infiltration. Israel's border fence with the West Bank produced a similar decline. Even holier-than-thou Europeans have conceded the point: Hungary, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Austria, Greece, Spain why, even Norway - have all started building border fences to stem the tide of Middle Eastern refugees. Then enforce two other measures: a national E-Verify system that makes it just about impossible to work if you are here illegally, and a functioning visa tracking system, since 40% of illegal immigrants are visa overstays. The wall/fence will, of course, be ugly. So are the concrete barriers to keep truck bombs from driving into the White House. Sometimes function has to supersede form. And don't tell me that this is our Berlin Wall. When you build a wall to keep people in, that's a prison. When you build a wall to keep people out, that's an expression of sovereignty. Of course, no barrier will be foolproof. But it doesn't have to be. It simply has to reduce the river to a manageable trickle. Once we do, everything becomes possible including dealing with our 11 million illegal immigrants. So, let's fix that. Track the visas, do E-Verify, build the damn barrier. It's ridiculous to say that it can't be done. And who would certify that the border is back in our control? I would have a neutral party, perhaps a commission of retired jurists, issue the judgment. Once they do, we legalize the 11 million, granting them the right to stay and work here. We can't give them citizenship. That's a bridge too far. You don't get to join the political destiny of the country by entering it illegally. But any children born here would be American which means that over time the issue resolves itself. The American people are legitimately angry at the price American society has paid due to illegal immigration. But they are also a generous people. Once they are assured that we do indeed control our borders, that anger will abate. A national consensus will emerge. Radical border control, followed by radical legalization. No mushy compromise. A solution requires two acts of national will: putting up a wall (along with E-Verify and visa tracking) and absorbing those who broke our laws to come to America. This is not a compromise meant to appease both sides without achieving anything. It's not some piece of hybrid legislation that arbitrarily divides illegals into those with five-year-old "roots" in America and those without or some such mischief-making nonsense. If we do it right, not only will we solve the problem, we will get it done as one nation. I'm Charles Krauthammer for Prager University.
We need to recognize our privilege and practice humility. Ami Horowitz: The concept of "white privilege" has become an important bulwark of the Democratic Party's ideology and was discussed in nearly every Democratic debate. I'm Ami Horowitz and I'm in Kansas City at a "white privilege" conference. "What is 'white privilege'?" you may ask. I don't know. Let's find out. This "white privilege" conference has over a thousand attendees. Many of them educators. Ami: Do you think that it's fair to say "All white people in this country have 'white privilege?'" Yes. Yes, absolutely. Ami: Do all white people have "white privilege"? Yes. I... feel myself having it everyday. The country is founded on white supremacy and that, like, persists today. Hyper aware, feel super guilty all the time. --that white people in this country generally are prejudiced? Uh, I'd go further and say we're all racist. Is it fair to say all white people are racist? Throughout the country? Yes. Absolutely. Ami: Not just the South? Correct. Yeah. Absolutely. Sometimes it's okay to be like, "Oh, all white people do this or white people are X" and... especially in a negative light. Ami: Is it wrong to judge people collectively? Yes. Is it wrong to judge people collectively? It's wrong to judge EVERYONE collectively. It's, you know... Ami: Duh! Uh, yeah! Absolutely. No one's a monolith! Ami: That's wrong to judge people collectively, right? To, to judge people? Yeah! *chuckles* Yeah. Ami: Obviously. Ami: Tell me about some of the "white privileges" that you have, uh, encountered over the past, let's say... today. Uh... you're talking about me as a white man today? Ami: Yeah, yeah... Oh gosh, uh... I mean it's... I don't know if I can give you examples-- Umm... Not, not really today, but... maybe-- Sorry, I'm not good at thinking-- Ami: Like today, what "white privilege" have you come across? Uhhh..... I sat in my room until 12:30 this morning, so-- Ami: What, what are some the "white privilege" things you came across, let's say, today? Today? Ami: Yeah. I mean, just, just being in the WORLD! Ami: Is it fair to say, that, on a daily basis, black people around this country, uh-- face obstacles because of "white privilege"? Absolutely. Absolutely. White supremacy, as an institution, uh, punish-- punishes black folk, uh, in a way-- Ami: D-d-daily? DAILY! Ami: All the time? Absolutely, absolutely. Everyday. Ami: --how black people are consumed with this day-to-day, they deal with this issue day-to-day? Oh, a hundred percent! I mean, I think that's just so obvious that if you're not admitting that you're, you're, you're blinding yourself to reality. Ami: Are you, are you a professor? Yeah. Ami: Okay. *chuckles* Ami: That make, that makes sense now. You know, in fact when we go to the airport I walk with her-- my wife's black-- so I'll have my hand on her so that she-- people see that I'm WITH HER. I extend my "white privilege" over to her-- Now I'm here in Harlem in front of the Jackie Robinson Housing Projects to ask residents what they think of "white privilege". Ami: [Do you know what] the concept of "white privilege" is? The concept of... "white privileges"? Ami: Yeah... ever hear of that? I've heard of it, but I don't think about it. Ami: When you wake up in the morning do you immediately think about and are consumed with the idea of "white privilege"? ...No. Ami: You don't think about that all day long, everyday of-- No. Ami: No?! No. No, I'm not consumed with it... at all. I teach students. I'm not consuming anything, except for runny noses and pencils. My mom didn't raise me to, to... view colors as the object of ANYTHING. Ami: Do you wake up everyday thinking, umm, "I am not gonna succeed today because of 'white privilege'?" No. Obviously not. You see, I'm my own business man. Ami: Would you ever think it's damaging to tell your kids, and teach your kids, that you're, uh, a black kid, that you're not gonna succeed in life because you have, uh-- Of course. Of course. It makes them think, "Okay, well, I'm gonna be nothing. If I want to be a doctor I can't even do that anymore." It gives them no hope. Color ain't stopped nothin'. I mean... It's a myth. It's America. If you're willing to put forth an effort... you'll do what you gotta do. I got kids in here, man, that's lawyers... doctors. That, they grew up outta this building. I know it sounds clich, but I can accomplish anything. If you let someone stop you, then that's YOU. Me, I ain't let nothin' stop ME. My daughter is graduating at the top of her class. I'll say to them, "How many black people do you know?". Ami: Do you think that sometimes white people should just kinda shut up a little bit? Oh yeah, for sure. --that white people should definitely shut the f--- up. We white Americans need to do a better job of listening when African Americans talk. Hi, I'm Elisha Krauss, Director of Outreach, here at PragerU. To have this video reach more people, please consider a donation below.
The Vietnam War lasted ten years, cost America 58,000 lives and over a trillion dollars, adjusted for inflation. It brought down a president, stirred social unrest and ended in defeat. No one in hindsight believes fighting a losing war is ever worth the cost. Consequently, the Vietnam War is usually written off as a colossal strategic blunder and a humanitarian disaster. Yet historical appraisals might have been much different had the Vietnam War followed the pattern of the Korean War which the United States fought for almost identical reasons the defense of freedom in Asia. The U.S. had military advisors in Vietnam during the 1950's, but didn't become involved in a major way until 1963. President John F. Kennedy firmly believed in the domino effect, the foreign policy theory that vulnerable nations without help would fall one after another, like dominos, to external communist aggression. Kennedy thus hoped to stop Soviet and Chinese-backed communist invasions in the manner President Harry Truman had in Korea by taking a stand in Vietnam. As with Korea, it was a war the United States did not seek. As with Korea, Vietnam presented no imperial advantages: no natural resources or resources of any kind that the United States needed to protect or wished to obtain. As with Korea the aggressor was a communist government in the North intent on taking control of the South; and its military crossed an internationally recognized border to do so. Following Kennedy's assassination in November of 1963, President Lyndon Johnson vastly escalated America's role in 1964. But even as he did so, Johnson prosecuted the war with deep ambivalence, authorizing significantly more troops and money for the war, but never pushing for total victory. In contrast, the North Vietnamese never wavered. They ignored every one of Johnson's many offers to negotiate a settlement. By 1971, the war was at a stalemate, neither side able to establish a clear advantage. The President, Richard Nixon, pursued a two-prong strategy -- to turn over combat operations to the South Vietnamese, and to bomb North Vietnam. The effort brought the communists to the Paris Peace Talks. And by 1973 the North agreed to a general settlement, establishing two autonomous Vietnamese nations, one communist, one non-communist -- in the manner of North and South Korea. However, the Watergate scandal, the subsequent resignation of President Nixon, and the Democrats sweeping congressional victory in the 1974 mid-term election all helped to convince the North Vietnamese that America would not enforce the peace agreement. They were right. Without U.S. air support and material aid, the South Vietnamese had no chance against the North. Well supplied by the Soviet Union and the Chinese, the communists gained full control over the country in April 1975. The war proved far more costly than Korea because the geography and landscapes of Vietnam were far more conducive to insurgency operations. There were also far more restrictions placed on American commanders than during the Korean War. And the United States in the 1960s was a far less conservative and cohesive country than America of the 1950s. Yet despite the long ordeal and terrible costs, South Vietnam was saved in 1973 -- only to be lost in 1975. The US defeat in Vietnam was a political choice, not a military necessity. Had the U.S. protected an independent, but vulnerable South Vietnam in 1973-4, that country would have mostly likely followed the model of South Korea. Millions of Southeast Asians would not have become boat people and refugees, or been sent to gulags and reeducation camps. A viable U.S. backed democratic Vietnam would have stabilized the region and almost certainly prevented the neighboring Cambodian genocide in which one fifth of that country, 2 million people, were slaughtered by its communist leadership. And much of the bitterness over the war on both sides of the American political spectrum, still with us today, would have vanished. And for the communist Vietnamese, the instigators and aggressors of the terrible conflict, what was it all for? Today, ironically, the Vietnamese government aspires to nothing more than the capitalist affluence that it once reviled. I'm Victor Davis Hanson of the Hoover Institution for Prager University.
You are what you eat, goes the old saying. And everywhere we are urged to eat organic: it's more nutritious, pesticide-free, and protects animals and the environment. At least, that's what we are being told or rather, sold. And thanks to a lot of very effective marketing, many people believe it. That's why, when researchers at Cornell University gave study participants a choice between two identical items, one labeled "organic" and one "regular," the participants confidently declared the "organic" choice to be lower in calories and more nutritious. They also said they'd pay 16 to 23 percent more for the organic choice. But these beliefs about organic food have nothing to do with reality. In 2012, Stanford University's Center for Health Policy did the most comprehensive comparison and found organic foods are not nutritionally superior to conventional alternatives. And a more recent review of 20 years of research into animal products by Italian researchers confirmed these findings. The authors concluded: "Scientific studies do not show that organic products are more nutritious and safer than conventional foods." That's fine, you might say. You don't eat organic foods just because of the health benefits, but because you care about the treatment of farm animals and of the environment. Unfortunately, the facts don't support these beliefs either. Animals on organic farms are not generally healthier than animals on regular farms. A five-year US study of dairy farms showed that "health outcomes [for animals on organic farms] are similar to conventional dairies." And the Norwegian Scientific Committee for Food Safety reached a similar conclusion. It found "no difference in objective disease occurrence" on organic dairy farms as compared to conventional dairies. And while pigs and poultry on organic farms may enjoy better access to open areas, this freedom, studies show, also increases their exposure to parasites, pathogens and predators. As for the environment, yes, organic farming will mean that in any one field, a farmer will use less energy and create fewer greenhouse gases. But there's a problem here. By forgoing fertilizers and pesticides, organic farming is much, much less efficient than standard farming, which means that organic farmers need much more land to grow the same amount of food. A major study in Europe found that to produce the same gallon of milk organically, you need 59% more land. To produce meat, you need 82% more land. And for crops, it's more than 200%. And more land for agriculture means less land for nature. If U.S. agricultural production was entirely organic, it would mean we would need to convert an area bigger than the size of California entirely to farmland. Economically, the lower productivity of organics means we have to commit more resources land, labor and capital. The total cost to the US economy of going organic would run to about $200 billion annually. But, surely organic food means no pesticides, right? Wrong. Organic farming can use any pesticide that is "natural. Natural pesticides include, for example, copper sulphate and Pyreethrin. The former has resulted in liver disease in vineyard sprayers in France, according to a 1996 study; and the latter, a 3.7-fold increase in leukemia among farmers who handled it compared to those who had not, according to a 2002 study. Yes, it is true that non-organic foods carry a higher risk of pesticide contamination. But that risk is almost non-existent. Rough calculations suggest that all the pesticides on food eaten by Americans may cause around 20 extra cancer deaths per year. You have a similar chance of being mauled to death by a cow. In sum, organic food is not healthier for you, nor is it better for animals and the environment than conventionally farmed food. I know this goes against everything you have come to believe, but that only proves the power of marketing. Organic food is a First World luxury. And while buying it is just as valid as any other luxury purchase, one should resist any implied moral superiority as, for example, when fashion designer Vivienne Westwood famously exclaimed that people who can't afford organic food should "eat less." Unfortunately, a lot of people in the developing world don't have the option of eating less. They worry about eating, period. To do that they need access to cheaper food, which means more access to effective fertilizers and pesticides. So, next time you see organic produce at the supermarket, don't just swallow the marketing campaign without some critical thought. I'm Bjorn Lomborg, president of the Copenhagen Consensus Center.
When you think about racial equality and civil rights, which political party comes to mind? The Republicans? Or, the Democrats? Most people would probably say the Democrats. But this answer is incorrect. Since its founding in 1829, the Democratic Party has fought against every major civil rights initiative, and has a long history of discrimination. The Democratic Party defended slavery, started the Civil War, opposed Reconstruction, founded the Ku Klux Klan, imposed segregation, perpetrated lynchings, and fought against the civil rights acts of the 1950s and 1960s. In contrast, the Republican Party was founded in 1854 as an anti-slavery party. Its mission was to stop the spread of slavery into the new western territories with the aim of abolishing it entirely. This effort, however, was dealt a major blow by the Supreme Court. In the 1857 case Dred Scott v. Sandford, the court ruled that slaves aren't citizens; they're property. The seven justices who voted in favor of slavery? All Democrats. The two justices who dissented? Both Republicans. The slavery question was, of course, ultimately resolved by a bloody civil war. The commander-in-chief during that war was the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln the man who freed the slaves. Six days after the Confederate army surrendered, John Wilkes Booth, a Democrat, assassinated President Lincoln. Lincoln's vice president, a Democrat named Andrew Johnson, assumed the presidency. But Johnson adamantly opposed Lincoln's plan to integrate the newly freed slaves into the South's economic and social order. Johnson and the Democratic Party were unified in their opposition to the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery; the 14th Amendment, which gave blacks citizenship; and the 15th Amendment, which gave blacks the vote. All three passed only because of universal Republican support. During the era of Reconstruction, federal troops stationed in the south helped secure rights for the newly freed slaves. Hundreds of black men were elected to southern state legislatures as Republicans, and 22 black Republicans served in the US Congress by 1900. The Democrats did not elect a black man to Congress until 1935. But after Reconstruction ended, when the federal troops went home, Democrats roared back into power in the South. They quickly reestablished white supremacy across the region with measures like black codes laws that restricted the ability of blacks to own property and run businesses. And they imposed poll taxes and literacy tests, used to subvert the black citizen's right to vote. And how was all of this enforced? By terror -- much of it instigated by the Ku Klux Klan, founded by a Democrat, Nathan Bedford Forrest. As historian Eric Foner - himself a Democrat - notes: In effect, the Klan was a military force serving the interests of the Democratic Party. President Woodrow Wilson, a Democrat, shared many views with the Klan. He re-segregated many federal agencies, and even screened the first movie ever played at the White House - the racist film The Birth of a Nation, originally entitled The Clansman. A few decades later, the only serious congressional opposition to the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 came from Democrats. Eighty percent of Republicans in Congress supported the bill. Less than 70 percent of Democrats did. Democratic senators filibustered the bill for 75 days, until Republicans mustered the few extra votes needed to break the logjam. And when all of their efforts to enslave blacks, keep them enslaved, and then keep them from voting had failed, the Democrats came up with a new strategy: If black people are going to vote, they might as well vote for Democrats. As President Lyndon Johnson was purported to have said about the Civil Rights Act, I'll have them n*****s voting Democrat for two hundred years. So now, the Democratic Party prospers on the votes of the very people it has spent much of its history oppressing. Democrats falsely claim that the Republican Party is the villain, when in reality it's the failed policies of the Democratic Party that have kept blacks down. Massive government welfare has decimated the black family. Opposition to school choice has kept them trapped in failing schools. Politically correct policing has left black neighborhoods defenseless against violent crime. So, when you think about racial equality and civil rights, which political party should come to mind? I'm Carol Swain, professor of political science and law at Vanderbilt University, for Prager University.
We don't like to see anyone living in poverty, but making employers pay their employees a higher minimum wage of more than $10 an hour really won't solve the poverty problem. That's because most people who earn minimum wage don't live in poverty in the first place. They actually live in homes where at least one or two other people work like a teenager whose parents have jobs. Or they are retirees who have savings accounts and Social Security as their main income. In fact, only about 1 in 10 minimum wage workers lives in a household that the government would consider poor. Does it make sense to try to solve the right problem the wrong way? A well informed public is the best defense against bad public policy.
Graduates: Even though it's a long way off, you've probably heard about something called the mid-life crisis men buy Italian sports cars; women go on yoga retreats to Bali. But I'll bet you've never heard of a crisis you may be facing in a few short years. I call it the quarter life crisis. I know a little something about it, because I went through it. Oh, boy did I go through it! When I was 24, a lot was going my way at least, on the surface. I had great friends. I had a great job on Capitol Hill. I even had a great apartment. So, why didn't I feel great about my life? I was working as a press secretary for a congressman. I should have been happy about that. But instead, I just felttrapped anxious and uncertain about my future. Where was I going? What was my next move? On the personal side, things weren't much better. I hadn't had a boyfriend in years, and there were no prospects on the horizon. Marriage seemed like an impossible dream. I loved my friends, but I still felt lonely. Right before my twenty-fifth birthday, I took a personal inventory (I love lists). It felt like I was falling short almost everywhere. I missed my college days, which seemed, in retrospect, so carefree. The future just looked boring and hard. That is what you call a quarter-life crisis. And I'd like to help you avoid it. To that end, I bring you three pieces of advice. One: Get out of town. Feeling trapped? One of the best ways to set yourself free is to move literally. After years of structure high school, college, right into a career I longed to be free. I wanted to be able to leave town at a moment's notice. So I stopped accumulating stuff. I only had one cup, one glass, one plate, one bowl, and one set of silverware. It was one of the best things I did for myself. It allowed me to be nimble in my life and my career. Assuming for a moment you're not married (if you are, congratulations!), you're pretty much accountable to no one. That will change. Take advantage of your mobility while you have it. Go where the opportunities are. But more than that, just go! That might mean going somewhere for a better job, or it might mean traveling whenever you get the chance. It's a big country and a big world. There's no reason to be stuck in one place, especially if that one place isn't working for you. Two: You're not going to become a ballerina at 25. You're still young, but you're not as young as you used to be. You don't have unlimited potential anymore. The last time you had unlimited potential, you were nine. At this point, you're pretty well formed what you're good at, what you're really bad at, what you like and don't like. I'm not saying you can't change, that you can't grow. Of course you can and must; but you are who you are, and you need to figure out who that is. To put it another way, what is it that you want out of your life? You need to make a realistic assessment of your strengths and weaknesses. Again, lists. This will help you take the next step in the process: setting a goal. Okay, ballerina not practical. What is? Be honest. Figure it out. Write it down. Then, as one of my mentors told me before my first White House press conference, Put your big girl panties on, and deal with it. Which leads to my final piece of advice: Meet the universe halfway. No one is going to hand you the life you want. You're going to have to go out and get it. But there's a twist. You don't really know where your life is going to take you. You almost certainly won't end up where you plan to be. But that's okay, because when you set goals and work toward them, positive things happen. You gain skills. And those skills will create opportunities that never would've existed if you weren't working toward something. Life will happen along the way; things will change in ways you can't possibly predict, but nothing happens if you're sitting on a couch waiting for your life to begin. I have a lot of other advice that will help you like, don't skip the dentist. But when it comes to surviving the quarter life crisis, I think this will help. Now, if anyone has any advice for my upcoming midlife crisis, let me know. I'm Dana Perino for Prager University.
Vanderbilt University, November 2015. 200 students rise up to protest the white privilege and micro aggressions of the racist, bigoted Vanderbilt administration. The protestors don't offer any specific examples of discrimination, but that doesn't matter what matters is that they feel victimized. The next day, a bag of dog poop shows up at the front door of the university's Black Cultural Center. All hell breaks loose. Full of righteous indignation, student activist groups rush to Facebook to denounce the racist act. The police investigate, they quickly find the person responsible, but nobody is arrested. You know why? Because it turns out that the bag of excrement wasn't a racist attack. It was left by a blind girl with a service dog. She couldn't find a trash can, so, wanting to do the responsible thing, she left the bag outside the door of a nearby building, knowing a janitor would pick it up and throw it away. The student group did apologize but then they added another charge against the administration: The needs of students with disabilities on this campus are also marginalized. Seriously, this is not a joke. On the college campus today, feelings rule facts and victims are heroes. According to the left, all inequality in America is due to victimization. They start by claiming that all non-white people in America are victims of white privilege. Then come women.They're all are victims of the patriarchy. Then come gays, and lesbians and the transgendered they're all victims of our heteronormative and homophobic society. But what if you haven't actually been victimized by anybody? It doesn't matter. To the left, so long as you feel victimized, you're a victim. Even if you have never actually experienced discrimination, you've surely been targeted by micro aggressions. You know, nasty little words and phrases that weren't meant to be insults, but just are. If somebody asks you where are you from? that's considered a xenophobic micro aggression they're implying that you are a foreigner! If a man holds open a door for a woman, which, but the way you're supposed to do, that's a sexist micro aggression because he's treating her like she's a helpless female. Of course, he's also treating her like she's a woman BUT HOW WOULD HE KNOW? And heaven forbid anybody address you by your biologically accurate pronoun. WHAT IF SHE IDENTIFIES AS A MAN?!? In short, everyone is a victim except, of course, straight white males Also anybody who dares to disagree with the left. If you're guilty of either of those crimes, you must be confronted, even if doing so requires actual aggression like, say, a riot. Here's a trick the left plays to justify their violence. First, they say it's okay to punch Nazis. Then, they say that every conservative in fact, everybody they disagree with is a Nazi. But here's the biggest problem with the left's argument: They're based on feelings, not facts. Take white privilege. The only real privilege in America is American privilege. Everybody in America has it more than citizens of any other country in the world the privilege to make your own decisions and live the life you choose. According to the liberal Brookings Institution, if you make just these three decisions, you'll do fine. And with drive and ambition, you'll probably do better than fine. First, finish high school. Second, don't have babies before you're married. Third, hold down a job. If you do these three things, you'll be on your way to the privilege of middle-class life, regardless of race, ethnicity, sexual-orientation, or gender. Also, there's no patriarchy. Women already make up the majority of college graduates. According to Time Magazine, young single women without kids already earn more than their male counterparts. Oh, and gay and lesbian couples, they earn more than their straight counterparts, too. These are facts, and facts don't care about your feelings. Neither will your employer if you get a job after you leave school. The moment you graduate, reality is gonna to hit you like a truck. People who give you a paycheck expect you to produce. They expect you to work. Hard. And all the claims of victimhood, all the whining well, nobody cares. So, stop worrying so much about your feelings, and start worrying a little more about being a good person, doing your best, and not getting in your own way. If you don't, the only thing you'll be a victim of is yourself. I'm Ben Shapiro, editor of The Daily Wire, for Prager University. To keep these videos free, click here.
Right now, there's a conversation happening online. And if you're watching closely, it might feel pretty one-sided. Conservatives are being painted to be something we're not ignorant, bigoted, even racist. Our ideas, our values they're not being communicated clearly. Or worse, sometimes they're not being communicated at all. But there's an opportunity now to change the tide and we can see that it's working. PragerU is building a counter culture with an impact on millions of people every day. Impact on people like Tom who said, "PragerU helped give me more confidence to articulate my views and stand for what I believe in." Or Jennifer who said, "We show PragerU videos to our kids before they go to school so that they are better prepared to defend our values." Plus thousands of educators who are using our videos. Like Andrew, a University professor who said, "I've shown the videos to my undergrad students at UC Berkeley. After two or three videos, they are hooked." But it's not just about helping conservatives. It's helping expose ideas to those who have never heard them before. And it's changing minds. Minds like Victor's, who said, "I was an undeclared moderate for ten years. Now I'm a constitutional conservative because of what I learned from PragerU." It's even having an impact on the way people think about Voting. For people like Diana who said, "I was considering either not voting, or voting for a third party candidate. PragerU convinced me to use my vote to send a strong signal to D.C." And it's having an impact on people who live outside the U.S. Like Felipe in Brazil who uses our videos to fight the socialist ideas in his country by posting and blogging about them. People all around the world are joining PrageU every day. So what are you waiting for" Become one of the millions that have expanded their mind with PragerU. We've made it easy for you to learn and share our ideas. And we are just getting started. Join us.
Nine hours. That's how long young people spend every day consuming online content. Video content has become a powerful communications tool, accounting for over 70% of all online traffic. 28% of all smartphone users watch a video on their device at least once a day. More video content is viewed on the web in a month than TV has in the last 3 decades. But there's a problem. Those of us who value conservative principles are losing in the war of ideas. If we want to break through in this new digital world, we have to adapt to a whole new way of communicating. Social media is where debates take place, and where ideas about history, politics, economics, and more are shaped. Who is educating the next generation? We must make the case for the ideas and values that made America the envy of the world and we must utilize the best technology to reach millions efficiently and effectively. For too long we've held on to outdated methods for spreading our ideas. We can't engage millions of people this way. Our country, our future, our values deserve the best defense out there. And PragerU is building it. We have built a team of experts who live on the cutting edge of digital and social media. Equipped with the ability to produce clear, informative and entertaining content. With the digital know how of online mass marketing. Now that's how we defend our values. And that's how we win. 250 million views last year? Why not a billion? Ground. Broken. Innovative thinking pushed PragerU to develop capabilities and reach beyond other conservative organizations. And that matters. It matters to Tom, the former head of the Stanford college democrats who, After binge watching PragerU's videos on YouTube resigned and became a PragerForce member. It matters to the thousands of young people like Lucy, Greg and Josh who write us daily thanking us for helping articulate the ideas and values that they support, so that they can have more informed conversations with their peers. And of course, it matters to the many fans and sponsors who support the mission of PragerU. You are the ones who make it possible for our videos to reach millions every day. To change minds on important issues. And to even impact the future of America. A stunning 98% of survey respondents said the arguments in our content helped them better articulate their values and beliefs. 17% of PragerU viewers said that our videos influenced the way that they voted in 2016. These are the examples of the massive impact we are seeing from our persuasive, entertaining, and highly-informative content. This means the real ripple effects of PragerU are exponential and immeasurable. But there's still work to be done. The Left is still dominating. They spend billions of dollars on reaching young people. And yes, it looks daunting. But consider this: Our efficient digital marketing strategy allows us to change the tide quickly. We're making it possible for people to learn more through mobile technology - through our online community, PragerForce and Prager Educators. And through partnerships with other organizations and donors like you. You You You You can have a direct influence on millions of Americans, and friends of liberty across the globe. We've proven our approach can win. But we have a long way to go. And you can get us there. So, join us. Join us. Join us. Join us. Come on. Donate today.
Imagine if there were an alternative to smoking cigarettes. Imagine this alternative could help millions of people quit smoking and came with only a fraction of the harmful chemicals that cigarettes do. Well, you don't have to imagine it. It exists. E-cigarettes are the most innovative and promising smoking-cessation product yet invented. So, public health officials and anti-tobacco activists are all in favor of this life-saving innovation, right? Actually, they're almost all totally against it. Why? Because, incredibly, they make no substantial distinction between e-cigarettes and real cigarettes -- even though they are completely different products. To begin with, e-cigarettes aren't cigarettes. They contain no tobacco. Instead, a liquid containing nicotine derived from tobacco leaves is vaporized, and users of e-cigarettes inhale that vapor. Vapor, mind-you not smoke. This is significant because the real harm from tobacco comes from the combustion process, which releases hundreds of toxic compounds known as tar. Since e-cigarettes have no tobacco and no combustion, they release no tar. This makes them, according to Britain's Department of Health, at least 95% less harmful than tobacco cigarettes. E-cigarettes do contain nicotine, an addictive drug. However, there is little evidence that nicotine alone is bad for you, making it similar to, say, caffeine -- a drug used every day by millions of people. Brad Rodu, an oral cancer specialist at the University of Louisville, put it this way: I love coffee, and I'm sure I could get caffeine if I smoked my coffee beans but I would be paying a much different price in overall health [if I did]. In other words, when it comes to addictive substances like caffeine or nicotine, it isn't the addictive substance that's harmful; it's how it's delivered. As South African psychiatrist Mike Russell said about cigarettes: [People] smoke for [the] nicotine, but they die from the tar. And again, there's no tar in e-cigarettes. Does this all mean e-cigarettes are completely safe? Of course not. Nothing is completely safe. E-cigarettes are a relatively new innovation so more research is needed, especially on long-term effects. There's also a place for sensible regulation to ensure consumer safety. But unlike normal everyday products, any potential risk posed by e-cigarettes is far outweighed by a real not potential good: saving lives by providing the nicotine that smokers enjoy without delivering the deadly toxins that can kill them. Many former smokers have successfully used e-cigarettes to help them kick their nicotine addiction altogether. A recent study in an Oxford Journal peer-reviewed publication, Nicotine and Tobacco Research, said that e-cigarettes could reduce smoking-related deaths by 21 percent. That's thousands of lives every year. John Britton, an epidemiologist and director of the University of Nottingham's Center for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, is even more optimistic: [E-cigarettes are] the first genuinely new way of helping people stop smoking that has come along in decades[They] have the potential to help half or more of all smokers get off cigarettes. So, again, you'd think public health officials and anti-tobacco groups would be doing everything they could to encourage smokers to switch to e-cigarettes. Instead, they push for laws and rules that equate the two products: cigarettes are bad, so e-cigarettes must also be bad. As of August 2016, the US Food and Drug Administration has ruled that all e-cigarettes must go through a long and expensive application process. This process could end up costing as much as $1 million per new product. While some of the biggest manufacturers will be able to shoulder the costs and navigate the regulatory mess, most small e-cigarette companies will be forced out of business. With less competition, e-cigarettes will become more expensive, and many people will go right back to smoking. E-cigarette prohibitionists may think they're using a better-safe-than-sorry approach to save consumers from some yet-to-be-discovered danger, but they're not. They're actually endangering millions of smokers who would make the switch if the e-cigarette market were allowed to flourish. As Joe Nocera, a New York Times columnist, wrote: Equating smoking cigarettes with inhaling e-cigarettes...is a huge disservice to public health. On the scale of potential harms, e-cigarettes aren't even in the same ballpark as combustible cigarettes. They have the potential to save millions of lives. The government needs to develop a new paradigm for dealing with e-cigarettes one that ensures basic standards but recognizes their relative safety and immense benefit to public health. If they don't, more people will die. Imagine that. I'm Caroline Kitchens of the R Street Institute for Prager University.
When people describe particularly evil individuals or regimes, why is it that they use the terms Nazi or fascist, but almost never communist? Given the unparalleled amount of human suffering communists have caused, why is communist so much less a term of revulsion than Nazi? Communists killed 70 million people in China, more than 20 million people in the Soviet Union (not including about 5 million Ukrainians), and almost one out of every three Cambodians. And communists enslaved entire nations in Russia, Vietnam, China, Eastern Europe, North Korea, Cuba and much of Central Asia. They ruined the lives of well over a billion people. So, why doesn't communism have the same terrible reputation as Nazism? Reason Number 1: There is, simply put, widespread ignorance of the communist record. Whereas both right and left loathe Nazism and teach its evil history, the left and I'm talking about the left, not traditional liberals like Harry Truman or John F. Kennedy has never loathed communism. And since the left dominates academia, almost no one teaches communism's evil history. Reason Number 2: The Nazis carried out the Holocaust. Nothing matches the Holocaust for pure evil. The rounding up of virtually every Jewish man, woman, child, and baby on the European continent and sending them to die is unprecedented and unparalleled. The communists killed far more people than the Nazis, but never matched the Holocaust in the systemization of genocide. The uniqueness of the Holocaust and the enormous attention rightly paid to it have helped ensure that Nazism has a worse name than communism. Reason Number 3: Communism is based on nice sounding theories; Nazism isn't. It's based on heinous sounding theories. Intellectuals in general including, of course, the intellectuals who write history are seduced by words so much so, that they deem actions as less significant than words. For that reason, they haven't focused nearly as much attention on the horrific actions of communists as they have on the horrific actions of the Nazis. They dismiss the evils of communists as perversions of true communism. But they regard Nazi atrocities (correctly) as the logical and inevitable results of Nazism. Reason Number 4: Germans have thoroughly exposed the evils of Nazism, have taken responsibility for them, and have attempted to atone for them. Russians have not done anything similar regarding Lenin's or Stalin's horrors. To the contrary, Lenin, the father of Soviet communism, is still widely venerated in Russia. And as regards Stalin, as University of London Russian historian Donald Rayfield puts it, People still deny, by assertion or implication, Stalin's holocaust. Even less so has China exposed the greatest mass murderer and enslaver of them all, Mao Zedong. Mao remains revered in China. Every Chinese currency note has his picture on it. Until Russia and China and Vietnam, and Cuba, and North Korea acknowledge the evils their countries committed under communism, communism's evils will remain less known than the evils of the German state under Hitler. Reason Number 5: Communists murdered mostly their own people. The Nazis, on the other hand, killed very few fellow Germans. World opinion that largely meaningless and amoral term deems the murder of members of one's own group far less noteworthy than the murder of outsiders. That's why, for example, blacks killing millions of fellow blacks in Africa elicits almost no attention from world opinion. And Reason Number 6: In the view of the left, the last good war was World War II, the war against German Nazism and Japanese fascism. The left does not regard wars against communist regimes as good wars. For example, the American war against Vietnamese communism is regarded as immoral, and the war against Korean communism and its Chinese communist backers is simply ignored. Until the left, and all the institutions influenced by the left, acknowledge how evil communism has been, we will continue to live in a morally confused world. In the meantime, all good people owe it to the victims of communism to learn what happened to them. Even worse than being murdered or enslaved is a world that doesn't even know that you were. I'm Dennis Prager.
After every new Jihadist attack against the West, politicians reassure us that the atrocity does not represent the true nature of mainstream Islam. Of the 1.6 billion Muslims in the world, they constantly reassure us, the overwhelming majority are as law abiding as any members of any other monotheistic faith. Only a tiny fraction engage in terror. And Islam is a religion of peace. Furthermore, we are told, the great majority of Muslims hold moderate views. But what does that mean? How moderate are moderate Muslims? Given the threat of radical Islam, it would seem to be a fair question. Let me start to answer it by telling you something of my own story. I was raised in a middle class Muslim home in Cairo, Egypt. Growing up, I was told, among many other things, the following: That every day that passes on the Islamic nation without a caliphate is a sin. That the failures and miseries of the Muslim world started the moment we Muslims gave up conquests and wars against the infidels. That our prosperity depended on conquering new lands and converting new believers. That anyone who leaves the faith must die. And I also remember how my teachers and my mosque imams reacted to the news of 9/11 when it happened: joy. My experience was typical, and there is data to prove it: According to the Pew Research Center, 88% of Muslims in Egypt, 62% in Pakistan, 86% in Jordan and 51% in Nigeria believe that any Muslim who choses to leave Islam should be put to death. Similar, if not identical, numbers are in favor of stoning people who commit adultery, severely punishing those who criticize Muhammad or Islam, and chopping off hands for theft. All of these practices are a part of the penal code of Islamic law, which is known as Sharia. And 84% of Muslims in South Asia, 77% in Southeast Asia, 74% in the Middle East and North Africa and 64% in Sub-Saharan Africa support Sharia as the law of the land. Less drastic, yet significant, percentages are to be found even among Muslim communities in the West. So, too, most of the world's Muslims believe that any acts of violence against Israel, including suicide bombers in buses and restaurants, are justified. Now, does any of this sound moderate to you? Yet if anyone raises these inconvenient truths here in the West, he is sure to be called an Islamophobe, a hater of Islam. Again, my own story is instructive. In February of 2015, I was yelled at, cursed at, and successfully prevented from speaking at Swarthmore College by students and others who did not agree to what I was saying. Some of them were Muslim women who fit the image of the unveiled, perfect English-speaking, moderate Muslim young woman. Other seeming moderates tried and failed to do the same during my speech at Temple University the next day. Some of them, sadly, were students of journalism. It is not Islamophobic to note the tragic fact that, at this time in history, the Muslim world is dominated by bad ideas and bad beliefs. That is why millions of so-called moderate Muslims do not rise up to denounce Islamist terror because the word moderate, as we understand it, doesn't really apply. If moderation means you tolerate freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, women's rights and gay rights, moderate Muslims are a distinct minority. Of course, they exist. Millions of them. But among believing Muslims, they do not represent anywhere near a critical mass. The values of the West and the values of Islam as practiced in the Muslim worlds of the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia, and more and more in Europe, are not compatible. Western politicians can deny this, but this denial does not change the reality. It is these bad ideas and beliefs that provides the soil in which radical Islam grows. Ignoring this only prevents us from effectively fighting Islamist terror, and at the same time it hurts those heroic Muslims who really are moderate. Until we begin to tell the truth about Islam always in respectful language the only solution to Islamist terror will never take place. That solution is Islam reforming itself. I do believe that reform is possible. It can, of course, only be done from within Islam. The West can be a part of that reform, but only if it faces and tells the truth. The sooner it does so, the better for all of us. I'm Hussein Aboubakr for Prager University.
We've all heard about how many bad things the U.S. government did to American Indians in the past. But what about today? Like most people, the only time I hear about today's American Indians is when people are outraged about sports mascots or team names, like the Washington Redskins. But sports teams' names are the least of Indians' problems. Did you know that Indians have the highest rate of poverty of any racial group in America? Did you know that alcoholism is more common among Indian youths than among youths in any other ethnic group? Did you know that the rate of child abuse among Indians is twice as high as the national average? Until I visited Indian reservations for my book, The New Trail of Tears, I didn't know any of this. What was at the root of these terrible problems? I wondered. And the deeper I dug, the more I realized that, between the 19th century and today, nothing has changed: it's still the government. The two main agencies that oversee the activities of Indians who live on reservations are the Bureau of Indian Affairs, or BIA, and the Bureau of Indian Education, or BIE. Education, economic development, tribal courts, road maintenance, agriculture and social services the federal government basically funds and controls all of it. It's no wonder Indians say BIA stands for Bossing Indians Around. Together, these two agencies have combined budgets of $3 billion per year, and have 9,000 employees. That's one employee for every 111 Indians on a reservation. Of that $3 billion per year, the BIE uses $850 million of it to educate 42,000 students. That's more than $20,000 per student, compared to a national average of $12,400 per student. Plenty of other federal agencies also have programs for Indians. For instance, the Indian Health Service had a 2015 budget of over $4.6 billion. And yet, there are widespread and documented reports of nurses being unable to administer basic drugs, of broken resuscitation equipment, and of unsanitary medical facilities. Obviously, inadequate funding isn't the problem. The billions of dollars that the federal government spends on Indians every year hasn't made their lives better. In fact, by most measures of economic and social health, the lives of American Indians are only getting worse. Aside from issues of culture, the only way out of this morass is economic growth, but the reservation system makes this almost impossible. Following a series of treaties and laws over many decades some well intentioned, some not the federal government decided to hold Indian land in trust in order to prevent non-Indians from ever buying that land. But other than Indians, the only people who have things held in trust for them are children and the mentally incompetent. Can anything better illustrate the low regard the government has for American Indians? The awful consequence of this land trust is that Indians can't sell their land, which means they can't use it the same way other Americans do for example, as collateral to get a loan to start a business. What bank would lend to landowners who don't own their land? The other effect of this absurdity is that Indians can't develop this land that they don't own. Indian reservations contain almost 30 percent of the nation's coal reserves west of the Mississippi, 50 percent of potential uranium reserves, and 20 percent of known oil and gas reserves. Those resources are estimated to be worth nearly $1.5 trillion. But the vast majority of Indian lands with natural resources remain undeveloped because of federal regulations. For instance, for Indians to get permission to mine for coal on Indian land requires 49 steps spanning four federal agencies. Each of these 49 steps can take months or years to be approved. There are so many government regulations that just to apply for a permit to dig a hole costs $6,500. Is it really any wonder that this community is mired in poverty? So, what can be done? For starters, end the trust system. Let Indians do what they want with the land they own. Get the massive federal bureaucracy out of the way. Give American Indians the opportunity to embrace the same thing that has lifted millions of other people out of poverty and into the middle class: free enterprise. It won't happen overnight, and it won't be easy, but it will do a lot more for American Indians than changing the name of the Washington Redskins. I'm Naomi Schaefer Riley for Prager University.
Government regulations and rules sometimes help level the playing field for businesses. But in other cases, unelected bureaucrats can hurt businesses that are creating jobs for you and me. New rules coming out of Washington may hurt franchised businesses. When it comes to business ownership, you often hear the terms franchisee and franchisor. A franchisor is like Subway Sandwiches. They own the brand and license it to small business people who might own one or two stores. There are literally thousands of franchisors in many different industries. Currently, if you want to open a franchised restaurant or retail store, you sign a deal with the franchisor (the company that owns the rights to the name, menu or products, and business model). The franchisee pays for those rights and agrees to maintain quality and follow certain standards. However, the franchisee is a separate business that makes its own decisions on who to hire, how much to pay, and what benefits to offer. This system has worked really well, creating more than 770,000 small businesses and supporting more than 18 million direct and indirect American jobs. Importantly, minority franchisees make up 20% of those businesses often locating in minority communities and employing minorities in those communities. Right now the National Labor Relations Board, a group of unelected bureaucrats, is trying to redefine the relationship between franchisees and their corporate partners (the franchisor). The idea is to make the bigger company and the smaller companies jointly liable for employee complaints and other legal issues. If the National Labor Relations Board successfully redefines the relationship between franchisees and franchisors, there may be far fewer new businesses and the jobs they create because franchisors will be much more hesitant to give inexperienced people a chance at opening a franchise. After all, why would they want to be in any relationship where they were responsible for thousands of decisions made by smaller companies every week. And franchisees didn't risk their life savings to open a business, only to find out they now essentially work for the franchisor. Botton line: this new definition slams the door shut on one of the proven paths to break into the business world. Make sense? Sometimes Washington needs to understand if it's not broken, don't fix it. Now that makes sense.
The first thing you should know about me: I'm a very lucky guy. The second thing you should know is: I'm blind, and that's why I'm wearing these. I was born with retinal cancer and, at ten months old, I lost my left eye. At twelve years old, I lost my right. So, why am I so lucky then? I'll give you three reasons: I have a loving and supporting family; I play competitive golf, which I love; and I'm the long snapper for the University of Southern California, which I love even more. But there's another reason why I'm lucky and that's because, even though I'm blind, and even though I have special needs, I got a great education. There is six and half million public school students in the United States who, like me, have special needs. Some of them have more serious disabilities than I do; some of them, less. But most aren't as lucky as I am. I went to Orange Lutheran, a private high school in Southern California. My school gave me a tutor that was able to help me through Calculus and other Advanced Placement courses. They gave me the same opportunities and expectations as any other student. And now, I go to a great college. But this was only possible because I was born into a family that could afford private school. In California, that's the only way special-needs students can be assured a good education. Why? Because in California, and in most states, if you're a special-needs student, you don't have any choices. If you cannot afford a private school, you are stuck -- in going to the public school that the government chooses for you. I tried that at first, but right off the bat there were problems. All the special-needs students in my district were grouped into one class. Academic ability didn't matter; interest didn't matter; it only mattered that you had a disability. Even if I were to outperform other students, say, in Honors Chemistry, I couldn't take the class with them because I was blind. And this was in Orange County, California home to some of the nation's top public schools! Imagine what it's like in less fortunate communities. But, thanks to my parents, I had options. So I left the public school and went to a private one. But what about the millions of special-needs students in middle-to-lower income families? Don't they deserve the same opportunities that I had? Of course, they do! And that's why I'm for school choice. With school choice, the money follows the student. Every child receives funding that their parents can direct to the school that best fits their needs: public, private, charter, even homeschool no one is stuck in a school that doesn't work for them. Twelve states already employ school choice programs for special needs students. And it works. One great example comes from Florida. The McKay Scholarship Program for Students with Disabilities gives kids the choice to attend the public school in their district, a public school in another district, or even a private school. A study by the Manhattan Institute showed marked improvement in reading and math scores for the students in the program. Not surprisingly, this program is becoming more popular. In 2009, 20,000 special-needs students enrolled. In 2015, that number had grown to over 31,000. But instead of trying to duplicate this success, teachers' unions, and the politicians in their pocket, cling to the old model, which benefits them not students. In states like California, New York, and even Texas, they have managed to block school choice entirely. But fortunately, they don't have the final say. More and more Americans believe that special-needs students deserve a quality education. It shouldn't depend on whether you are lucky enough to be born into a family that can afford private school, or whether you are lucky enough to be born in the right district, or right state. It shouldn't depend on luck at all. No one sees this more clearly than I do. I'm Jake Olson, for Prager University.
It's appalling that, in the 21st century, there is still so little diversity on American college campuses. This. Cannot. Stand. It's not who we are. It's intolerable. It's time we demand a change. It's time to stage a protest, to storm the Dean's office. We will not be ignored. Diversity is our strength. I'm not talking about diversity of skin color. Been there. Done that. Today's campuses are more racially integrated than at any time in history. And I'm not talking about gender diversity. Women already make up the majority of college graduates. And if your concern is non-binary gender, there is no place on earth more accepting of hims, hers, zims and zirs than a college campus. I'm not even talking about sexual diversity. You can pretty much experiment with anyone you want in any way you want, as long as you get a consent form signed and notarized in advance. No, the diversity I'm talking about is diversity of thought! Let me say it again in case you missed it. Diversity of thought. That's right: people expressing different points of view on an issue. At most colleges today, that's a dangerous, revolutionary idea if that different point of view is not on the Left. The moment you enter college, you enter an indoctrination center. Remember orientation week? It starts there and never stops. They tell you to be open-minded, but they don't really mean it. Almost all your professors are on the Left: nearly 12 to 1, Left to Right according to a recent study by Econ Journal Watch. There are many departments at many colleges that don't have a single conservative voice. The administration invariably supports Leftist positions. And, all those diversity administrators, they depend for their livelihood -- that means their paycheck -- on creating victims. Diversity of race or gender or sexuality or any of the other distinctions du jour that universities glorify are, at best, superficial and, at worst, just plain destructive. It's destructive to any real learning. If you don't study Shakespeare because he was a white male, you have been deprived of learning from the most brilliant playwright who ever lived. And it's destructive of a peaceful campus environment because it pits racial, ethnic, and gender groups against one another. In other words, diversity, as practiced on your typical college campus divides, not unites people. And diversity of thought? The free exchange of ideas? You know, what college is actually supposed to be about? Not happening. If you've been in college for a few years, ask yourself this: When was the last time you heard a professor or a TA make the argument that capitalism has lifted more people out of poverty than any other economic system? Or that socialism always leads to poverty? Or that the post-World War II order created by America has been the freest and most prosperous time in human history? Or that the cause of high crime rates in black communities has very little to do with historic racism? And God forbid if a conservative speaker should show up on campus and dare to say any of these things. If the ideas of the people on the right have so little merit, why bother to protest? Shouldn't their bad ideas just die on their own? Isn't the purpose of a liberal education to expose students to differing points of view? Turns out that the liberal in liberal education means leftist. Here's how the University of California at Berkeley, the pinnacle of political correctness, describes itself: Our goal is to transform UC Berkeley into an equitable and inclusive academy of the highest caliber one that fully honors the diversity of our students, faculty and staff." Give me a break. Berkeley needs to be transformed? It's not diverse enough? After all these years of expanding equity and inclusion? Bull-crap. It positively reeks of cissexist heteropatriarchy! Say that three times. I don't know what it means, but it sure sounds bad. Walk around the Berkeley campus, or almost any campus, and you will see plenty of blacks, Hispanics, gays, lesbians even a straight white guy or two. College is a place where they want everyone to look different, but think exactly the same. It's like a freaking cult. At some point you have to stand up, separate yourself from the crowd and say, Enough! It's time to diversify thought on campus. It's time to demand a real education. God knows, you're paying for it. I'm Charlie Kirk, President of Turning Point USA, for Prager University.
Would a government-run, Canadian-style health care system work in the United States, a nation of 320 million people? Well, we already know the answer. Just ask America's veterans - they've had government run health care for decades. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (known as the VA) runs the largest hospital and health care system in America. The VA employs over 340,000 people - twice the size of the Marine Corps. And it has a $180 billion annual budget - making it the second largest department in the Federal Government. Only the Department of Defense budget is bigger. The VA is a true single-payer health care system. It runs over 150 hospitals and 1,400 community-based clinics across all 50 states. The doctors, nurses, administrators everyone that works for the VA is a government employee. The system actively serves some 7 million patients - one-third of the 21 million veterans alive in the U.S. today. Sounds impressive, right? But for the past few decades - and especially for veterans of the war in Vietnam, as well as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, where I served - the VA has been an abysmal failure: inefficient, bureaucratic and sometimes deadly. Among veterans, horror stories about the VA abound. These stories were tragically brought to light in 2014, when whistleblowers in Phoenix revealed that 1,700 veterans there had waited an average of 115 days -- just to receive an initial appointment. According to the VA's official policy, that wait time should have been no more than 14 days. As if that wasn't bad enough, the Phoenix VA then lied about it, releasing falsified waiting lists to the public to cover its tracks. Phoenix turned out to be the norm, not the exception. The VA's inspector general found systemic problems across the country. In Fort Collins, Colorado, for example, clerks were instructed to falsify records to show that doctors were seeing more patients than they actually were. In Columbia, South Carolina, delays in diagnosis and treatment directly led to the deaths of multiple patients. The VA program there had nearly 4,000 backlogged appointments despite a $1 million grant earmarked to reduce delays. And in the VA's hospital in Pittsburgh in 2011 and 2012, there was an outbreak of Legionnaires' Disease that officials knew about for more than a year before informing patients. At least six veterans died as a result. The Obama Administration's own Deputy Chief of Staff, Rob Nabors, revealed that VA health care has a corrosive culture with significant and systemic failures. The politician's response to this debacle? Spend more money, a lot more money. The VA's budget has almost doubled since 2009. They've hired 100,000 new people in the past decade. Wait times have actually gone up, yet not one administrator was fired for the waitlist scandal. The real solution to the problem is not more government, more money, and more bureaucracy, it's more competition, accountability, and transparency. Let the money follow the veteran. If veterans were given vouchers that they could use at any health care provider private or government they would control their own care. This, in turn, would force the VA to compete for their business, encouraging staff to treat patients as customers, not just as names on a waiting list. Until then, veterans will remain at the mercy of politicians and bureaucrats who continue to insist that the government can deliver quality and timely health care despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, The reality is that it can't. This probably best explains why two-thirds of all veterans 14 million people don't use the VA at all. And those who do use the VA still get 75 percent of their healthcare outside of the VA system even though they have to pay more for it. In short, whoever can afford not to use the VA, doesn't use the VA. Hardly a ringing endorsement of the system. So, could government-run, Canadian-style health care work in the United States? Given America's experience with the government-run, single-payer VA, why would we even want to try? I'm Pete Hegseth for Prager University.
When you think about government agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food and Drug Administration, you probably think their activities are overseen by Congress - that is, we the voters elect members of Congress to monitor different departments of the federal government. But there's one federal agency that doesn't operate like that. It's called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB. Created by the Dodd-Frank financial law in 2010, the CFPB claims to hold banks and lenders accountable and protect Americans from predatory lending practices - keeping the borrowing process fair. It sounds reasonable, but the law gave them too much power. Unlike most government entities, the agency receives its budget automatically every year and doesn't have to answer to Congress. Its director is also a White House appointee and can only be fired by the president. But how does this affect you? Well the CFPB is one of the government's most active rule-makers, churning out countless mandates to regulate the borrowing process. It targets numerous financial services - including mortgages, credit cards, car loans, or short-term loans. The agency is especially focused on punishing American banks and piling on thousands of regulations that cost billions of dollars in compliance. And since the CFPB doesn't have anyone to answer to, it can levy fines and penalties onto whomever they want. This huge cost makes it harder for banks to lend money to individuals and small businesses in need, preventing them from surviving and thriving. If a small business can't secure a loan, for example, it can't expand and hire more employees - hurting people who need jobs. Since the passage of the Dodd-Frank financial law, only three new community banks have opened a year, compared to a historical average of 100 per year. On top of that, over 1,200 U.S. banks have gone out of business since 2010. This leaves individuals and small businesses with fewer options. Keep that in mind the next time you need a loan. It might be the CFPB holding you back.
I'm Ami Horowitz. Democrats and the Democratic Party have moved decisively to the left, "How far to the left?" you may ask. What's wrong with socialism? Nothing! What's wrong with socialism? Nothing. Nothing. What's wrong with socialism!? I don't have anything, I don't have any problems with it. I don't think anything's wrong with socialism. Capitalist countries have always been messing with the ideology of trying to to delegitimize It. I...I kinda like it. I think that the american people like socialism. I think socialism's great. This is a pretty dangerous part of town. What are we doing here? What kind of food? Venezuela, a democratic socialist state with the world largest oil reserves, has descend into a mind-boggling Malthusian chaos. The country has been engulfed in violence, hunger and corruption and is on the edge of total societal collapse. Venezuela's socialist experimentation has decimated the middle class and most people in Caracas live in the extremely dangerous barrios of the city. These barrios are massive, crudely built, claustrophobic cities within cities. We're here in one of the biggest barrios in Caracas to get a sense of how the situation is affecting the poor people here. It's a very dangerous place, we made a deal from the barrio bosses so we should be safe. [Off Camera] "Hopefully..." Hopefully. Are there are times that you're just...you're just hungry? Your family is hungry? Food has become so scarce that people have to wait in lines, very long lines, in order to get enough to survive, just barely. What time did you go to wait in line? All night, and all you've got was that one can of milk, of leche? Getting in line overnight does not guarantee that you'll come away with anything, because the lines are controlled by the government approved mafia, with the socialist Orwellian name, "The Collective". They bus in their own people right before the stores open and grab most of the food. These are bad dudes that care little for the common people, and these big dogs always eat first and of course they don't want their control of the line to be filmed. There are only two classes in Venezuela. The poor and the super rich. The incoming inequality is absolutely staggering. While most the country is literally starving, the governament connected mega rich are still rocking it old school. The one thing that _is_ egalitarian in Venezuela, is violence. The wave of violence that has descended upon the country has been epic. They have less than one tenth of the population of the United States, but three times as many murders. Caracas has had more deaths this year than Baghdad, and those are the reported numbers. The _real_ numbers are much, much higher. All this despite the fact that Venezuela has extremely strict gun laws. This dystopian country has literally become one of the most dangerous places to be on planet Earth. While the violence is literally happening everywhere in Venezuela, it seems particularly bad here in the barrios. I never got permission to shoot here, but it doesn't really feel like a safe space to me. Do you know anybody who's been killed, personally in your life? Right in front of us a man was shot in the street by unknown assailants. [Off Camera] "Holy (expletive), that guy just got shot." [Off Camera] "There's a cop, (expletive) just walking away." Do you feel socialism works? Let me ask you this. What do you think of Americans who want to bring socialism...democratic socialism into America? They are one of the most productive, their people are the happiest, they have the least amount of crime, violence...everything. Socialist countries? Yeah, it's...There's nothing wrong with it in my eyes. Hi, I'm Marisa Streit, CEO of _PragerU_. Did you know that _PragerU_ is a non-profit? Every dollar you give on the donate link below will go directly towards marketing this video.
He was Major League Baseball's first superstar. The first man ever inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. And he still has the game's highest career batting average -- .366 -- almost 90 years after he retired. His name is Ty Cobb. Yet, despite his historic achievements, he is often remembered for being the worst racist and the dirtiest player ever to take the field. If you know baseball, you've heard the stories: Ty Cobb would pistol-whip black men he passed on the street. He once stabbed to death a black waiter in Cleveland just because the young man was acting uppity. On the field, he was said to sharpen his spikes to cut-up rival infielders. He supposedly had no friends. In the movie Field of Dreams, Shoeless Joe Jackson says that Cobb wasn't invited to the ghostly cornfield reunion because, No one liked the son of a bitch. A lifelong baseball fan, I believed these stories when I set out to write the first authoritative biography of Cobb in 20 years. I'd been hearing them all my life and, like a lot of people, I took the repetition as evidence. But, to my astonishment, as I delved into the source material -- newspapers, census reports and personal letters -- I couldn't find any proof that they were true. On the contrary, Cobb's teammates on the whole seemed to respect him, defending him on the field and off. His opponents said he played the game hard, but clean! Wally Schang, a veteran catcher was typical. He once said, Cobb never cut me up. He was too pretty a slider to hurt anyone who put the ball on him right. One famous photograph from 1912 shows Cobb flying foot-first into the crotch of St. Louis Browns catcher Paul Krichell. It looks bad. But pictures can be deceiving. In reality, Cobb is kicking the ball out of Krichell's glove. He didn't spike the catcher. Krichell later said, "In a way, it was really my fault. I was standing in front of the plate instead of on the side, where I could tag Ty as he slid in. Indeed, in 1910, Cobb actually asked the league to require that players dull their spikes! And what about the bigotry how could a man born in Georgia in 1886 not be a racist? Well, as it turns out, Ty Cobb descended from a long line of abolitionists. His great-grandfather was a minister who preached against slavery and was run out of town for his troubles. His grandfather refused to fight in the Confederate army because of the slavery issue. And his father, an educator, once broke up a lynch mob. On the subject of blacks playing with whites, Cob said, The Negro should be accepted wholeheartedly and not grudgingly The Negro has the right to play professional baseball, and who's to say he has not? Cobb attended many Negro league games, sometimes throwing out the first pitch and sitting in the dugout with the players. He said Willie Mays was the only modern-day player he'd pay to see. As for that black waiter he supposedly killed? Well, in reality he was a hotel night watchman. And Cobb didn't kill him, he just scuffled with him. And oh, yeah the guy was white! Now, Ty Cobb was, like the rest of us, a highly imperfect being too quick to take offense, too intolerant of those who did not strive for excellence with the same almost crazy zeal that he did. But a racist? A dirty player? Not true. What is true is that almost every accusation against Ty Cobb's character finds its roots in the same source un-fact-checked articles and books published after his death by a bitter, opportunistic journalist named Al Stump whom Cobb had once threatened to sue for making up stories about him. It didn't matter that Stump had spent little time with Cobb, or that all of Stump's sources were anonymous; that sportswriters who knew Cobb rushed to his defense; or that Stump himself had been banned from publications for writing lies. The scandal was titillating, and it stuck. When the legend beats the facts, print the legend. Meanwhile, a good man's reputation lies in ruins. There are lessons to be learned here: First, it's all too easy to believe lies about people, especially successful ones. Lies take achievers down a few notches, and we like to hear that. And second, if a lie is repeated often enough, it becomes accepted as fact. This has consequences, because lies are the source of much of the world's evil like the evil of destroying a man's legacy; in this case, a legacy that should be celebrated. Ty Cobb was the most exciting baseball player of all time. He once stole second, third, and home on three consecutive pitches. He once turned a tap back to the pitcher into an inside-the-park home run. He was not a racist or a cheat. It's time to tell the truth about Ty Cobb. I'm Charles Leerhsen, author of Ty Cobb: A Terrible Beauty, for Prager University
Many American millennials seem to be drawn to socialism. They came out in big numbers for Bernie Sanders in the 2016 presidential primaries. They rail against capitalism on their college campuses. They wear Che Guevara t-shirts to signal their socialist virtue. I know a lot about socialism. I live in Rio de Janeiro and I work throughout Brazil as a journalist for a popular magazine. In the early 2000s, Brazil's economy was growing rapidly. The government had enacted economic and monetary reforms and divested holdings in some state-run companies, giving the private sector more room to breathe. Inflation - a chronic problem in Brazil - was dramatically reduced. Foreign investors poured into the country, eager to catch a portion of our expanding economy. The future seemed promising. But today, our economy is in shambles, unemployment and debt are massive and powerful politicians are being investigated for involvement in the largest scandals of fraud and corruption in the country's history. What happened? In 2002, a socialist politician named Lula da Silva ran for the presidency. He was a socialist, but painted himself as a modern, cool kind of socialist. He would be the politician who would heal national divisions and unite everyone. He even had a nickname, Lulinha paz e amor, which means "Little Lula peace and love" in Portuguese. But the old message about the need for income redistribution to decrease inequality was still there. The media, academic elite and celebrities assured Brazilians that by transferring the money from the rich to the poor, the poor could finally be richer. But the only ones who really got rich were Lula and his corporate and political friends. It only got worse under his successor, Dilma Rousseff. The socialists increased government spending, deficits, and debt. They called it a stimulus. They increased the minimum wage and the benefits of social programs. They called it social justice. They increased the salaries and retirement benefits of the civil service. They called it investing in the future. They handed out thousands of jobs in the government and state-owned companies as favors to their political allies. And they called it good governance. It worked for a while. Socialism always works at the beginning. But government spending just kept going up and then Lula's socialist paradise fell apart, and the economy fell with it. The outcome: from 2008 to 2015, government spending grew nearly four times as fast as tax revenue. The economy shrank 3.8 percent in 2015, the worst result in 25 years. That same year, a World Bank survey found Brazil's economy to be one of the world's worst. Out of 189 countries, we were the 16th hardest place to open a business, the 60th most difficult nation in which to register property, and the 12th most complex place to pay taxes. Economically and morally, the almost 15 years of Socialist policies have greatly harmed Brazil. We also remain among the world's leaders in murder and robbery, and we rank near the bottom of industrialized nations in terms of education and health care. Americans take it for granted that they can be born into the lower class and reach the middle or even upper class. Many Brazilians take it for granted that they can't. But finally some things are starting to change. There may be reason for hope. Today, more and more Brazilians see that capitalism and limited government are the only way forward. Thankfully for Brazil, Lula has been charged in several lawsuits for corruption, involvement in a criminal organization, influence peddling, money laundering, and obstruction of justice. Rousseff was impeached in 2016 for falsifying the government's finances, and illegally using money from state-owned banks to run the government. This crisis prompted the new government to freeze federal spending, reduce the government's role in state-owned companies, and to encourage some of the massive federal workforce to resign. No one knows whether these basic measures will be enough to rescue Brazil economically. Truthfully, the damage has been so extensive, it may take decades for the country to recover. But if we do, it won't be socialism that saves us. American millennials take note. I am Felipe Moura Brasil for Prager University. Hi Everyone, I am Felipe Moura Brasil, a journalist and columnist in Brazil. PragerU videos have made a deep impact on me and many Brazilians. If you have been impacted by these videos too, please consider making a donation to PragerU. Your support will help ensure that PragerU can keep these videos free and continue to make a difference. Please donate today. Chao, from Brazil.
If Israel just allowed the Palestinians to have a state of their own, there would be peace in the Middle East, right? That's what you hear from UN ambassadors, European diplomats and most college professors. But what if I told you that Israel has already offered the Palestinians a state of their own and not just once, but on five separate occasions? Don't believe me? Let's review the record. After the breakup of the Ottoman Empire following World War I, Britain took control of most of the Middle East, including the area that constitutes modern Israel. Seventeen years later, in 1936, the Arabs rebelled against the British, and against their Jewish neighbors. The British formed a task force the Peel Commission to study the cause of the rebellion. The commission concluded that the reason for the violence was that two peoples Jews and Arabs wanted to govern the same land. The answer, the Peel Commission concluded, would be to create two independent states one for the Jews, and one for the Arabs. A two-state solution. The suggested split was heavily in favor of the Arabs. The British offered them 80 percent of the disputed territory; the Jews, the remaining 20 percent. Yet, despite the tiny size of their proposed state, the Jews voted to accept this offer. But the Arabs rejected it and resumed their violent rebellion. Rejection number one. Ten years later, in 1947, the British asked the United Nations to find a new solution to the continuing tensions. Like the Peel Commission, the UN decided that the best way to resolve the conflict was to divide the land. On November 7, 1947, the UN voted to create two states. Again, the Jews accepted the offer. And again, the Arabs rejected it, only this time, they did so by launching an all-out war. Rejection number two. Jordan, Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon and Syria joined the conflict. But they failed. Israel won the war, and got on with the business of building a new nation. Most of the land set aside by the UN for an Arab state the West Bank and east Jerusalem became occupied territory; occupied not by Israel, but by Jordan. Twenty years later, in 1967, the Arabs, led this time by Egypt and joined by Syria and Jordan, once again sought to destroy the Jewish State. The 1967 conflict, known as the Six Day War, ended in a stunning victory for Israel. Jerusalem and the West Bank, as well as the area known as the Gaza Strip, fell into Israel's hands. The government split over what to do with this new territory. Half wanted to return the West Bank to Jordan and Gaza to Egypt in exchange for peace. The other half wanted to give it to the region's Arabs, who had begun referring to themselves as the Palestinians, in the hope that they would ultimately build their own state there. Neither initiative got very far. A few months later, the Arab League met in Sudan and issued its infamous Three No's: No peace with Israel. No recognition of Israel. No negotiations with Israel. Again, a two-state solution was dismissed by the Arabs, making this rejection number three. In 2000, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak met at Camp David with Palestinian Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat to conclude a new two-state plan. Barak offered Arafat a Palestinian state in all of Gaza and 94% of the West Bank with East Jerusalem as its capital. But the Palestinian leader rejected the offer. In the words of US President Bill Clinton, Arafat was Here 14 days and said no' to everything. Instead, the Palestinians launched a bloody wave of suicide bombings that killed over 1,000 Israelis and maimed thousands more on buses, in wedding halls, and in pizza parlors. Rejection number four. In 2008, Israel tried yet again. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert went even further than Ehud Barak had, expanding the peace offer to include additional land to sweeten the deal. Like his predecessor, the new Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, turned the deal down. Rejection number five. In between these last two Israeli offers, Israel unilaterally left Gaza, giving the Palestinians complete control there. Instead of developing this territory for the good of its citizens, the Palestinians turned Gaza into a terrorist base, from which they have fired thousands of rockets into Israel. Each time Israel has agreed to a Palestinian state, the Palestinians have rejected the offer, often violently. So, if you're interested in peace in the Middle East, maybe the answer is not to pressure Israel to make yet another offer of a state to the Palestinians. Maybe the answer is to pressure the Palestinians to finally accept the existence of a Jewish State. I'm David Brog, Executive Director of the Maccabee Task Force, for Prager University.
We hear a lot about large companies in the news, but small business is the engine of the U.S. economy. America is home to more than 28 million small businesses that employ 57 million workers. And when you add owners and employees together, that's a community of roughly 85 million hardworking Americans dependent on the success of small business - most of the private-sector workforce. Small business owners are America's most important job creators: U.S. small businesses accounted for almost two-thirds of the net new jobs created between 1993 and 2013 - a grand total of 11.8 million new career opportunities. In 2012, small businesses created more than 2.1 million net new jobs. Small businesses are the country's main job creators because they are often growing and looking for new markets to expand. To do so, they need additional employees along the way. Large businesses, on the other hand, generally stay the same size, hiring new employees to replace departing ones. Unfortunately, high taxes and recent government regulations in health care, finance, and labor disproportionately hurt small businesses and prevent them from growing and adding new jobs to the economy. Big business with big profits can afford to comply with red tape in a way that small businesses just starting out cannot. As a result, small businesses still haven't recovered completely from the Great Recession - and it shows by the chronically weak labor market. More than 94 million Americans are not working or actively looking for jobs. The labor force participation rate - which measures the percentage of employees and job-seekers in the U.S. - is less than 63 percent, the lowest figure since the late 1970s. To bring small businesses back, and strengthen the job market, job-killing taxes and regulations must be rolled back. Job creators should be encouraged to hire more employees, not forced to reduce career opportunities. With 85 million people depending on the success of small business, it's easy to see why small business is too big to fail.
She was the best choice we ever made... and that choice led to many more. We chose to spark her imagination early. We chose to make her strong. We chose to pass down the greats and give her something to root for. We chose when to be hands on and when to be hands off. .And some choices we let her make on her own. We've always made choices that we felt were best for our daughter... ...so when it comes to choosing the best school for her... why do we lose that choice?
Do you believe that good and evil exist? The answer to this question separates Judeo-Christian values from secular values. Let me offer the clearest possible example murder. Is murder wrong? Is it evil? Nearly everyone would answer yes. But now I'll pose a much harder question: How do you know? I am sure that you think that murder is wrong. But how do you know? If I asked you how you know that that the earth is round, you would show me photographs from outer space, or offer me measurable data. But what photographs could you show, what measurements could you provide that prove that murder or rape or theft is wrong? The fact is...you can't. There are scientific facts, but without God there are no moral facts. In a secular world, there can only be opinions about morality. They may be personal opinions or society's opinions. But only opinions. Every atheist philosopher I have read or debated on this subject has acknowledged that if there is no God, there is no objective morality. Judeo-Christian values are predicated on the existence of a God of morality. In other words, only if there is a God who says murder is wrong, is murder wrong. Otherwise all morality is opinion. The entire Western world what we call Western civilization is based on this understanding. Now, let me make two things clear. First, this doesn't mean that if you don't believe in God, you can't be a good person. There are plenty of kind and moral individuals who don't believe in God and Judeo-Christian values. But the existence of these good people has nothing nothing to do with the question of whether good and evil really exist if there is no God. Second, there have been plenty of people who believed in God who were not good people, indeed more than a few have been evil and have even committed evil in God's name. The existence of God doesn't ensure people will do good. I wish it did. The existence of God only ensures that good and evil objectively exist and are not merely opinions. Without God we therefore end up with what is known as moral relativism meaning that morality is not absolute but only relative to the individual or to the society. Without God, the words good and evil are just another way of saying I like and I don't like. If there is no God, the statement Murder is evil is the same as the statement I don't like murder. Now, many will argue that you don't need moral absolutes people won't murder because they don't want to be murdered. But that argument is just wishful thinking. Hitler, Stalin, and Mao didn't want to be murdered, but that hardly stopped them from murdering about a hundred million people. It is not a coincidence that the rejection of Judeo-Christian values in the Western world by Nazism and Communism led to the murder of all these innocent people. It is also not a coincidence that the first societies in the world to abolish slavery an institution that existed in every known society in human history were Western societies rooted in Judeo-Christian values. And so were the first societies to affirm universal human rights, to emancipate women, and to proclaim the value of liberty. Today, the rejection of Judeo-Christian values and moral absolutes has led to a world of moral confusion. In the New York Times in March 2015, a professor of philosophy confirmed this. He wrote: What would you say if you found out that our public schools were teaching children that it is not true that it's wrong to kill people for fun? Would you be surprised? I was. . . The professor then added: The overwhelming majority of college freshmen view moral claims as mere opinions. So, then, whatever you believe about God or religion, here is a fact: Without a God who is the source of morality, morality is just a matter of opinion. So if you want a good world, the death of Judeo Christian values should frighten you. I'm Dennis Prager
What's the best way to help poor people escape poverty? Progressives and conservatives have very different answers to this question, but before we explore those answers, let's agree on this: Both progressives and conservatives believe that the government has a moral obligation to help those who, through bad luck or unfortunate circumstances, can't help themselves. Here's what a conservative icon, Nobel Prize-winning economist, Frederic Hayek, said on the subject: There is no reason why, in a society that has reached the general level of wealth ours has attained, the first kind of security should not be guaranteed to allsome minimum of food, shelter, and clothing sufficient to preserve health and the capacity to work. Whatever the media might tell you, there isn't a conservative out there who would not agree with Hayek's statement. As I have documented in my book, Who Really Cares, when it comes to philanthropy and charitable giving, conservatives actually out-give progressives -- by a lot. Where the two sides disagree is on the role the government plays not in protecting the poor from poverty, but in lifting them out of it. Here's a disturbing piece of data: On balance, since President Lyndon Johnson's War on Poverty programs came fully online in 1966, the poverty rate in America has hardly budged. That rate, as computed by the United States government, was 14.7 percent in 1966. And today? It's 13.5 percent. The rate has fluctuated a few points up and down over the decades. The net result is just one percentage point of progress. And this is after the government has spent over 20 trillion dollars on poverty relief programs. 20 trillion dollars the current size of the US debt -- and the needle has barely moved. Now, it's true that the official poverty rate doesn't measure consumption. Certainly, poor people today have many more things than poor people did in 1970. Across all income levels, including the poor, Americans are likely to have cell phones, air conditioners, flat screen TVs, computers and a car. And life expectancy has lengthened considerably thanks to overall improvements in health care. But it demeans poor people to say that this material progress makes poverty less of a problem. Our goal should never be to merely make poverty less miserable for people. Our goal must be to make poverty more escapable. Many progressives offer a straightforward solution: more funding for poverty programs. They believe that we need to transfer more wealth through government taxation -- from people who have money to people who don't. This is the income inequality argument. Conservatives have a different answer: more opportunity. Conservatives define success by how few people need help from the government, not by how many people we can enroll in government programs. When they see sixty percent more people on food stamps after the recession than we had before it started, conservatives say, That's not success. That's failure! You see, conservatives believe that simply giving people money doesn't help them escape poverty; on the contrary, it can keep them locked into it. Getting things without working for them is a very hard habit to break so much so, that it can become a way of life. According to my research, earning your way out of poverty is much more empowering and enduring than being supported by a variety of government programs, which do little more than maintain people in their poverty. This doesn't mean that government doesn't have a role to play. Indeed, wherever possible, the government and private charities should require people to work in exchange for social assistance. When we do this, we help people in two ways. First, through welfare, we are helping them meet their immediate material needs. And second, through work, we are helping them earn their own success - the key to a fulfilling and dignified life. Whether we're progressive or conservative, shouldn't that be what we want for our fellow citizens? I'm Arthur Brooks, President of the American Enterprise Institute, for Prager University.
If, for the same work, women make only 77 cents for every dollar a man makes, why don't businesses hire only women? Wages are the biggest expense for most businesses. So, hiring only women would reduce costs by nearly a quarter and that would go right to the bottom line. Don't businesses want to be profitable? Or, are they just really bad at math? Well, actually, it's the feminists, celebrities and politicians spreading this wage gap myth who have the math problem. Here's why: The 77-cents-on-the-dollar statistic is calculated by dividing the median earnings of all women working full-time by the median earnings of all men working full-time. In other words, if the average income of all men is, say, 40,000 dollars a year, and the average annual income of all women is, say, 30,800 dollars, that would mean that women earn 77 cents for every dollar a man earns. 30,800 divided by 40,000 equals .77. But these calculations don't reveal a gender wage injustice because it doesn't take into account occupation, position, education or hours worked per week. Even a study by the American Association of University Women, a feminist organization, shows that the actual wage gap shrinks to only 6.6 cents when you factor in different choices men and women make. And the key word here is choice. The small wage gap that does exist has nothing to do with paying women less, let alone with sexism; it has to do with differences in individual career choices that men and women make. In 2009, the U.S. Department of Labor released a paper that examined more than 50 peer-reviewed studies and concluded that the oft-cited 23 percent wage gap may be almost entirely the result of individual choices being made by both male and female workers. Well, let's look at some of those choices. Georgetown University compiled a list of the five best-paying college majors, and the percentage of men or women majoring in those fields: Number 1 best-paying major: Petroleum Engineering: 87% male Number 2: Pharmaceutical Sciences: 48% male 3: Mathematics and Computer Science: 67% male 4: Aerospace Engineering: 88% male 5: Chemical Engineering: 72% male Notice that women out-represent men in only one of the five top-paying majors by only a few percentage points. Now consider the same study's list of the five worst paying college majors: Number 1: Counseling and Psychology: 74% female Number 2: Early Childhood Education: 97% female 3: Theology and Religious Vocations: 66% male 4: Human Services and Community Organization: 81% female 5: Social Work: 88% female Here, it's the women who lead in all but one category. Even within the same profession, men and women make different career choices that impact how much money they make. Take nursing, where male nurses on the whole earn 18% more than female nurses. The reason? Male nurses gravitate to the best-paying nursing specialties, they work longer hours, and disproportionately find jobs in cities with the highest compensation. Now, here's how one expert on nursing compensation, Professor Linda Aiken of the University of Pennsylvania, sums up the data: Career choices and educational differences explain most, if not all, the gender gap in nursing. The Department of Labor paper concluded that once these differences are accounted for across all professions, the unexplained wage gap is somewhere between 4.8 and 7 percent almost identical to the 6.6 percentage gap found by the AAUW. But why is there any gap at all? No one knows for sure, as both the AAUW and the Labor Department concede. There are so many variables that drive wages that no single study can cover them all. Few wage gap studies control for variables such as dangerous work environment; men are vastly overrepresented, for example, on oil rigs. And here's another variable: men are more willing and able to work long hours without advance notice. According to Harvard economist Claudia Goldin, even if two lawyers have the same education, same specialty, and work the same number of hours - firms pay more to someone who is willing to always be on call and ready to be in the office when the firm needs them, as opposed to wanting a more regular schedule. This isn't sexism, it's just common sense. With more realistic categories and definitions, whatever wage gap remains would certainly narrow to point of vanishing. So it seems that business leaders aren't bad at math simply because they don't only hire women. Those who claim that for the same work women earn 77 cents on the dollar compared to men, on the other hand, are not merely bad at math --but at telling the truth. I'm Christina Hoff Sommers of the American Enterprise Institute for Prager University.
Does an American citizen have a Constitutional right to own a gun? Here's what the Second Amendment says: A well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed. Now, it once seemed to me like that language only protected state militias and not individuals. Indeed, this is the view held by the four dissenting Supreme Court justices in the 2008 case of District of Columbia versus Heller, a landmark case dealing with gun ownership. But the more research I did, the more I came to realize that my initial view was mistaken and that the Founders were, in fact, securing an individual right. The five justices who voted to affirm the right to own a gun in DC versus Heller had, indeed, made the correct decision. Let's look at the amendment one more time. A well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed. We first need to focus on the phrase the right of the people. Note that the people are the only ones whose right is secured here, not the militia or a state government. This phrase the right of the people comes up a few times in the Constitution. For example, the First Amendment refers to The right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government. And the Fourth Amendment secures The right of the people to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures. Why, then, if the authors of the Constitution felt so strongly about the right of the people to own guns, did they include language about a well-regulated militia? These opening words of the amendment might be called a justification clause. Such clauses are used to help explain why a right is being secured. But it's the operative clause that explains what right is being secured. In this case, the right of the people to keep and bear arms. And what was the word militia' understood to mean at the time? Well, the Militia Act of 1792 defined militia to mean all white males 18 to 45. Today, of course, militia would include women and people of all races, but it was clearly not a reference to a small, National Guard-type group. And what about the part of the amendment that says a militia is necessary to the security of a free State? What, the opponents of personal gun ownership ask, does a personal right of gun ownership have to do with that? Again, historical context is key. In the 1790s, the phrase free State wasn't used to mean an individual state like New York or Rhode Island. Rather, it meant what we'd call today a free country - a nation free of despotism. A free State is what the Framers wanted America to be. They saw an armed citizenry as, in part, a hedge against tyranny. Citizens who own weapons can protect themselves, prevent tyrants from seizing power, and protect the nation from foreign enemies. This does not mean, though, that this right is unlimited. Free speech, for example, has long been subject to some narrow and reasonable regulations. But severe restrictions on owning a gun, like severe restrictions on free speech, would violate the Second Amendment as the Founders understood it. Maybe you think this understanding of the Second Amendment is outdated today, that the Constitution needs to change as public attitudes change. The Founders included a provision for doing just that: if the public attitude really has changed, the Constitution can be amended to reflect that change. But, ironically, even if we focus on current public attitudes, the case for individual gun ownership is as strong as ever. Polls consistently show that over two-thirds of Americans believe that the Second Amendment secures the right of citizens to own a gun. And Congress and state governments have repeatedly reaffirmed this view, including in recent decades. So, does the Second Amendment secure an individual right to bear arms? It did when it was written. It has throughout American history. And it does today. I'm Eugene Volokh, Professor of Law at UCLA, for Prager University.
The world is on fire. The Middle East is being torn up by war and terrorism that have forced millions of people to flee. Syria looks like the disaster of a generation. Iran seeks to dominate the region and openly declares its intention to wipe a sovereign nation off the map. While in Eastern Europe, a resurgent Russia has seized Ukrainian territory by force of arms. China is flexing its muscles against its neighbors around the South China Sea. There is only one nation in the world capable of putting out these fires. That nation is, of course, the United States. Many Americans will argue, understandably, that this is not fair. It may not be fair. But it is a fact. Only America has the diplomatic reach, the financial resources, and the firepower to lead the free world against the autocrats, rogue states and terrorists that are trying to overwhelm it. As the Prime Minister of Denmark from 2001 to 2009, and the secretary-general of NATO from 2009 to 2014, I know how important American leadership is. I've seen firsthand what happens when America tries to lead from behind instead of leading from the front. A case in point: Russia illegally annexed Crimea in March 2014 - the first gunpoint land grab in Europe since the end of World War II. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry called it an unbelievable act of aggression. He went on, You just don't, in the twenty-first century, behave in nineteenth-century fashion by invading another country on a completely trumped-up pretext. This might be an admirable statement of principle, but as a guide to policy, it is dangerously naive, because whether it was believable or not, it happened. The first half of the twentieth century was the bloodiest in human history. That was before America became a global superpower. Since America's ascendancy, the major world powers have coexisted in relative peace. Now that peace is threatened, and America must step forward again. Simply put, no one else can do it. Europe is too weak and divided to lead the world. The free nations have an essential role to play, and they must shoulder their full share of the cost, but only America has the credibility to lead. This is not just about money or manpower. It is also about morality. Only America has the moral greatness to lead the free world - not for the sake of power, but for the sake of peace. Yet the U.S. will only be able to ensure peace if its leaders act with conviction. If the world even thinks that America lacks the will to use force or enforce its red lines, it leaves a vacuum that will be filled by corrupt autocrats, rogue states and murderous terrorists. As tempting as retreat might be, it won't make America and the other freedom-loving countries safer or more prosperous. History shows us: the bad guys don't stay in their own neighborhoods. We only need to look at Pearl Harbor or 9/11 to be reminded that the safety of Americans is deeply connected to the rest of the world. And the stability that has permitted the vast and world-wide economic expansion since World War II, an expansion that has lifted billions of people out of poverty, could not have happened if America had not guaranteed it. But freedom, stability and prosperity don't come for free. And they are not the normthey are the exception. An American retreat will unleash a new plague of dictators and oppressors who seek to undo all the good America has done to secure peace and prosperity around the world for decades. And that could lead to a fire no one will be able to put out. I'm Anders Fogh Rasmussen for Prager University.
"Listen, my children, and you shall hear of the midnight ride of Paul Revere." Have you ever heard that thrilling line? Do you even know who Paul Revere is? If you're under, say, 30, I'm going to guess that the answer to both of these questions might be no. This is a very serious problem, but it's not your fault. It's a serious problem because it means you have been cut off from one of our greatest American stories. And it's not your fault because no one bothered to teach you about this courageous man and the great American poet who made him famous. It seems professional educators decided that other topics were more important to your education. But they made a mistake. A big one. The story of Paul Revere is part of our heritage. It, and countless other stories like it, unite us as a distinct people with a shared noble past. They also inspire us and stir national pride. These are good things, vital to the future of the country. Without them, we're just 300 million different individuals living between Canada and Mexico. It wasn't always this way. In fact, not long ago you couldn't have left high school without memorizing the line I quoted and many of the lines that follow. So let me right a wrong and tell you about two remarkable Americans who lived half a century apart one a silversmith, and one a poet. Paul Revere and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. By 1775, the American colonists and their British masters were on the verge of war. The flashpoint was Boston. It wasn't so much a matter of where the British would strike, but when. To give themselves some advance warning, the rebels created a team of couriers. One of them was a successful forty-year-old silversmith and engraver named Paul Revere. On the night of April 18, two lanterns were lit in the tallest structure in the city, the Old North Church. This was the signal that the fateful moment had arrived. The British were coming. Revere rode out into the darkness to warn his compatriots to prepare for a fight. That fight came the next day in Lexington. The War of American Independence had begun. But in the decades following, history mostly forgot Paul Revere. After serving in the war, he had an extraordinary career as an early industrialist, building a significant business that survives to this day as Revere Copper. But when he died in 1818, his obituary made no mention of his daring ride. The only reason we still know of him is because of another crisis in American history the Civil War. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow had been an ardent opponent of slavery, an abolitionist, from the time he was a young man. By 1860, he was America's most famous poet. An epic struggle was coming, one that would again determine the future of the nation. He anxiously wondered whether the people of the Northern states would be up to the challenge that lay ahead. What might he do to inspire them? Longfellow remembered a story he had read many years before about Revere's ride. He recreated it with consummate skill. As you read his glorious poem, you can almost hear the thundering hooves of the silversmith's horse. Published in a new magazine called the Atlantic Monthly in January 1861, his brilliant ballad was an immediate success. Schoolchildren began memorizing and reciting it at annual Independence Day celebrations. In 1883, a twenty-two-year-old sculptor, Cyrus Dallin, was commissioned to create a Paul Revere statue to stand in the plaza across from the Old North Church. It is still one of the most popular tourist sites in Boston. What is Longfellow's poem asking of us who hear it today? It is doing what all great art does: it calls us to think of ourselves as part of something larger - as part of something noble, beautiful, good, and true. The men like Paul Revere who fought in the American Revolution were not merely fighting for themselves and for their families, but for something far beyond that for a new kind of nation. The men who fought to free the slaves in the Civil War renewed that promise. If we forget these brave men, we forget what they stood for, and therefore we will forget what America means. And, just like an individual who has lost his memory no longer knows who he is, a nation or a people that loses its memory no longer knows who they are. Longfellow's poem reminds us. So, go read Paul Revere's Ride by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. I promise, you'll be glad you did. It begins like this: "Listen, my children, and you shall hear of the midnight ride of Paul Revere." I'm Eric Metaxas, author of "If You Can Keep It: The Forgotten Promise of American Liberty," for Prager University.
If you have a job you might be wondering what all those deductions on your paycheck are. When you're just starting out in the workforce it's important to learn the difference between gross pay and net pay. Gross pay is what you earned before deductions, like taxes. Net pay is what's left in your check after all the deductions are taken out. So who or what is FICA? It is the Federal Insurance Contributions Act Tax, which is comprised of Social Security and Medicare taxes. It's called a payroll tax because it takes money out of employees paychecks every pay cycle. FICA taxes are currently more than 7.5 percent of everyone's paycheck until you reach a cap. Employers pay an equal amount of FICA taxes for each employee. And even if you don't pay any income taxes, you still pay FICA taxes. Social Security taxes fund retirement benefits for retired workers, as well as benefits for the disabled and their dependents. The funds received for Medicare, on the other hand, are used to provide medical benefits for certain individuals when they reach age 65. Workers, retired workers, and the spouses of workers and retired workers, are eligible to receive Medicare benefits once they reach retirement age. So if you're working, it's your money that helps pay for those benefits. And it's a lot of money too. In 2015, federal payroll taxes generated $1.07 trillion in revenue for the government, accounting for about one-third of all federal tax revenues.
Do you ever look at the lives of people around you and say, Man, I wish that was me. You know you do. Everybody does, but I bet you never compared yourself to me. Haven't heard of me? I do have my own TV show -- in the middle of the night. When I started I wanted to be as big as Jerry Seinfeld. I'm not. And yet, I'm a pretty happy guy. Here's why. I stopped comparing myself to other people. Seriously, that's the whole trick. Here's what I mean. If my happiness were based on being the biggest comedian in the business, I'd be mad at whoever was getting more Netflix specials than me. (I have zero.) If it were based on having the best TV ratings, I'd be mad at Jimmy Fallon. He beats me every night. And if it were based on being rich, I'd be mad at a lot of people. And even if I were rich, really rich like #10 on the Forbes 400 rich, I'd be mad that there were nine other people richer than me. It never ends. Comparing yourself to others creates a totally unrealistic measure for what constitutes success. And I know because the entertainment business is all about unrealistic expectations. All through my career I'd meet with satisfied customers after my shows and they'd say. Hey, you're good maybe someday you'll be successful like Jerry Seinfeld. He's the measure of success? The top guy? When someone tells you they're a doctor, you don't say, Well, maybe someday you'll cure a disease and save millions of lives, just like Jonas Salk did for polio. Or a lawyer: Oh, wow, so what's your ultimate goal, the Supreme Court? Do you see how crazy that sounds? Professional success is about making a living, pursuing excellence, and finding meaning in what you do. When I first started doing standup, I was a nobody. It took more than a decade of playing in front of tuned out crowds before it started paying the bills. Ten years is a long time to tell jokes for no money to people who aren't laughing. In those days, I spent a lot of time thinking about the comedians I admired. The guys at the top. I wanted those big, sold out houses I wasn't playing. The big paydays I wasn't making. The TV specials I wasn't doing. And not just their success, their talent. I'd look at comics like George Carlin, Robin Williams and Louis C.K. They were all able to turn their dark, personal struggles into brilliant comedy. I envy their talent, but I wouldn't want the dark personal struggles that went along with it. If you don't factor in everything, about whoever you're comparing yourself to, you're playing a sort of mix-and-match game that doesn't exist in the real world. Here's one of life's little truths - everyone is a package deal. You can't view one element of someone else's life in isolation. That's cheating. You can't say, I want Louis C.K.'s money and fame, Jay Leno's car collection and Tom Shillue's wife and kids. That person doesn't exist! If he did, he'd be pretty cool. I'd definitely want to hang with him. Everyone has pain in their lives. Think of anybody who you know really well. You know the awful stuff they've had to deal with - the demons they battle. How many dead rock stars, movie stars and, yes, comedians does it take to convince us all that everyone's life is hard? Face it, you really don't want somebody else's life. You want your own life -- only better. But that's the thing. You can make your life better by not doing something comparing yourself to other people. Back when I was a nobody I wanted to sell out the biggest venues and have a prime time TV show with millions of viewers. Now I sell out small venues and I'm on in the middle of the night with half a million viewers. And I appreciate every one of them. I guess when I compare myself now to myself then, I'm doing okay. You should try it. I'm Tom Shillue for Prager University.
Do you believe in free speech? Do you believe that people should be judged by their character, not their skin color? Do you believe in freedom of religion? If you believe these things, you're probably not a progressive. You might think you're a progressive. I used to think I was. My show, The Rubin Report was originally part of the progressive young Turks' network. Progressives struck me as liberals but louder. Progressives were the nice guys; they looked out for the little guy; they cared about women and minorities; they embraced change. In short, who wouldn't want to be a progressive? But over the last couple of years, the meaning of the word progressive has changed. Progressives used to say, I may disagree with what you say, but I'll fight to the death for your right to say it. Not anymore. Banning speakers whose opinions you don't agree with from college campuses that's not progressive. Prohibiting any words not approved of as politically correct -- that's not progressive. Putting Trigger Warnings on books, movies, music, anything that might offend people that's not progressive, either. All of this has led me to be believe that much of the Left is no longer progressive, but regressive. This is one of the reasons I've spent so much time on my show talking about The Regressive Left. This regressive ideology doesn't judge people as individuals, but as a collective. If you're black, or female, or Muslim, or Hispanic, or a member of any other minority group, you're judged differently than the most evil of all things a white, Christian male. The Regressive Left ranks minority groups in a pecking order to compete in a kind of Oppression Olympics. Gold medal goes to the most offended. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s dream that his children would be judged by their character and not their skin color was a liberal idea, but these days, it's not a progressive ideal. And what about religious freedom - the idea that no one else can tell you what you have to believe? Surely progressives still support that basic right. Well, not so much. I'm a married gay man, so you might think that I appreciate the government forcing a Christian baker or photographer or florist to act against their religion in order to cater, photograph, or decorate my wedding. But you'd be wrong. A government that can force Christians to violate their conscience can force me to violate mine. If a baker won't bake you a cake, find another baker. Don't demand that the state tell him what to do with his private business. I'm pro-choice. But a government that can force a group of Catholic nuns - literally called the Little Sisters of the Poor to violate their faith and pay for abortion-inducing birth control can force anyone to do anything. That's not progressive; that's regressive! Today's progressivism has become a faux-moral movement hurling charges of racism, bigotry, xenophobia, homophobia, Islamophobia, and a slew of other meaningless buzzwords at anyone they disagree with. The battle of ideas has been replaced by a battle of feelings, and outrage has replaced honesty. Diversity reigns supreme, as long as it's not that pesky diversity of thought. This isn't the recipe for a free society, it's a recipe for authoritarianism. For these reasons, I can no longer call myself a progressive. I don't really call myself a Democrat either. I'm a classical liberal, a free thinker, and as much as I don't like to admit it, defending my liberal values has suddenly become a conservative position. So, if you think people should be able to say what they think without being punished for it; that people should be judged by their behavior, not their skin color; and that people should be able to live the way that they want to live, without government interference, then there's not much left on the Left for you. I'll keep trying to explain that to progressives until I'm totally left out. I'm Dave Rubin of The Rubin Report for Prager University.
In the judo competition of the 2016 Olympics in Brazil, an Israeli heavyweight judo fighter named Or Sasson defeated his Egyptian opponent, Islam El Shehaby, in a first-round match. The Egyptian then refused to shake the Israeli's extended hand, earning boos from the crowd. If you want the short answer for why the Arab world is sliding into the abyss, look no further than this little incident. It illustrates how hatred of Israel and Jews corrupts every element of Arab society. You won't find this explanation for the Arab world's decline among journalists and academics. They reflexively blame the usual suspects: the legacy of colonialism, unemployed youth, the Sunni-Shia sectarian divide, and every other politically correct excuse they can think of. For them, hatred of Israel is treated like sand in Arabia -- just part of the landscape. Yet the fact remains that over the past 70 years the Arab world expelled virtually all of its Jews, some 900,000 people, while holding on to its hatred of them. Over time the result proved fatal: a combination of lost human capital, expensive wars against Israel, and an intellectual life perverted by conspiracy theories and a perpetual search for scapegoats. The Arab world's problems are a problem of the Arab mindset, and the name of that problem is anti-Semitism. As a historical phenomenon, this is not unique. Historian Paul Johnson has noted that wherever anti-Semitism took hold, social and political decline almost inevitably followed. Just a few examples: Spain expelled its Jews in 1492. The effect, Johnson noted, was to deprive Spain (and its colonies) of a class already notable for the astute handling of finance. In czarist Russia, the adoption of numerous anti-Semitic laws ultimately weakened and corrupted the entire Russian government. These laws also led to mass Jewish emigration, resulting in a breathtaking loss of intellectual and human capital. Germany might well have won the race for an atomic bomb if Hitler hadn't sent Jewish scientists like Albert Einstein and Edward Teller into exile in the U.S. These patterns were replicated in the Arab world. Contrary to myth, the cause was not the creation of the state of Israel in 1948. There were bloody anti-Jewish pogroms in Palestine in 1929, Iraq in 1941, and Libya in 1945. Nor is it accurate to blame Israel for fueling anti-Semitism by refusing to trade land for peace. Among Egyptians, hatred of Israel barely abated after Prime Minister Menachem Begin returned the entire Sinai Peninsula to Egypt. And among Palestinians, anti-Semitism became markedly worse during the years of the Oslo peace process. Johnson calls anti-Semitism a highly infectious disease capable of overwhelming intellectuals and simpletons alike. Its potency, he noted, lies in transforming a personal and instinctive irrationalism into a political and systematic one. For the Jew-hater, every crime has the same culprit and every problem has the same solution. Anti-Semitism makes the world seem simple. In doing so, it condemns the anti-Semite to a permanent darkness. Today there is no great university in the Arab world, no serious scientific research, a stunted literary culture. In 2015 the U.S. Patent Office reported 3,804 patents from Israel, as compared with 30 from Egypt, the largest Arab country. Hatred of Israel and Jews has also deprived the Arab world of both the resources and the example of its neighbor. Israel quietly supplies water to Jordan, helping to ease the burden of Syrian refugees, and quietly provides surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities to Egypt to fight ISIS in the Sinai. But this is largely unknown among Arabs, for whom the only permissible image of Israel is an Israeli soldier in riot gear, abusing a Palestinian. Successful nations make a point of trying to learn from their neighbors. The Arab world has been taught over generations only to hate theirs. This may be starting to change. Recently, the Arab world has been forced to face up to its own failings in ways it cannot easily blame on Israel. The change can be seen in the budding rapprochement between Jerusalem and Cairo, Riyadh and Abu Dhabi. But that's not enough. So long as an Arab athlete can't pay his Israeli opposite the courtesy of a handshake, the disease of the Arab mind and the misfortunes of its world will continue. For Israel, this is a pity. For the Arabs, it's a calamity. I'm Bret Stephens.
The United States is the world's most prosperous economy. It's been that way for so long -- over a hundred years -- that we take it for granted. But how did it happen? There are many answers, of course. One is that the United States values the free market over government control of the economy. But here's a point that is seldom made: It didn't begin that way. Before the country placed its trust in the free market, it trusted the government to make important business decisions. Or to put it another way, only after the government failed repeatedly to promote economic growth and only after private enterprise succeeded where the government failed, did the United States start to develop a world beating economy. Let's look at three telling examples: In 1808 John Jacob Astor formed the American Fur Company and marketed American furs around the world. Europeans adored beaver hats for their peerless warmth and durability. Astor gave them what they wanted. Instead of leaving the fur business to capable entrepreneurs like Astor, the government decided it wanted to be in on the action. So, it subsidized its own fur company run by a self-promoting government official named Thomas McKenney. McKenney should have won the competition. After all, he had the federal government backing him. But while Astor employed hundreds of people and still made a tidy profit, McKenney's company lost money every year. Finally, Congress in 1822, came to its senses and ended the subsidies for McKenney and his associates. A similar situation developed in the 1840's around the telegraph. The telegraph was the first step toward the instant communication we have today. Invented by Samuel Morse, the telegraph transmitted sound as dots and dashes representing letters of the alphabet. Morse, more of an idealist than businessman, agreed to let the government own and operate the telegraph in the national interest. But the government steadily lost money each month it operated the telegraph. During 1845, expenditures for the telegraph exceeded revenue by six-to-one and sometimes by ten-to-one. Seeing no value in the invention, Congress turned the money-loser over to private enterprise. In the hands of entrepreneurs, the business took off. Telegraph promoters showed the press how it could instantly report stories occurring hundreds of miles away. Bankers, stock brokers and insurance companies saw how they could instantly monitor investments near and far. As the quality of service improved, telegraph lines were strung across the country from 40 miles of wire in 1846 to 23,000 miles in 1852. By the 1860s, the U.S. had a transcontinental telegraph wire. And by the end of that decade entrepreneurs had strung a telegraph cable across the Atlantic Ocean. Why didn't the US government profitably use what Morse had invented? Part of the answer is that the incentives for bureaucrats differ sharply from those of entrepreneurs. When government operated the telegraph, Washington bureaucrats received no profits from the messages they sent, and the cash they lost was the taxpayers', not their own. So government officials had no incentive to improve service, to find new customers, or to expand to more cities. But entrepreneurs like Ezra Cornell, the founder of Western Union, did. Cheaper, better service meant more customers and more profits. Just fifteen years after Congress privatized the telegraph, both the costs of construction and the rates for service linking the major cities were as little as one-tenth of the original rates established by Washington. In the steamship business, we see the story repeated yet again. During the 1840s, regular steamship travel began between New York and England. The government placed its bets on ship owner Edward Collins, a man more skilled at political lobbying than at business. While Congress funded Collins, Cornelius Vanderbilt started his own steamship company. Vanderbilt cut the costs of travel, filled his ships with eager passengers, and built a fabulously successful business, soon leaving Collins in his wake. Collins failed because he didn't feel a need to improve, or even provide safe and regular service (for example, two of his four ships sank, killing hundreds of passengers). If he lost money, there was always another politician to appeal to. Vanderbilt, in contrast, had to serve his customers or he would have lost his company. You'd think we would have learned our lesson by now: economic prosperity comes from free enterprise, not from government subsidies. But it's a lesson we have to learn every generation. I'm Burton Folsom, Professor of History at Hillsdale College, for Prager University.
What if schools had to compete for students in the same way that businesses have to compete for customers? Would schools get better or worse? There's no need to guess. In almost every state and city where there is competition today, educational outcomes improve often dramatically. This competition is called school choice, and many states and cities now embrace it. With the old model, under which most American children still live, the government not the parent decides which school children will attend. Now, here's how school choice works: The money follows the student. Every child receives funding that their parents can direct to the school of their choice public, private, charter or even homeschool. According to researchers at the University of Arkansas in the most comprehensive study done to date -- students in school choice programs saw their reading and math scores improve by 27 percent and 15 percent, respectively. Sounds like something we should get behind, doesn't it? But for millions of families in my home state of California and in many others, school choice is not a choice. And there's one reason why: teachers' unions. I've been a teacher for 28 years, and served as a leader in a local affiliate of the California Teachers Association -- so I've seen this problem from the inside. Teachers in California public schools are coerced to pay dues to the teachers' unions. True, we cannot be forced to join, but we are forced to pay the union. Their fees are mandatory - and expensive. In California alone, the unions raise over 300 million dollars every year. What do the unions do with all that money? They lobby the government for more money - more money for public education. That might sound good, but it's really just a smoke screen. The National Center for Education Statistics reports that since 1970, public school attendance in the U.S. has gone up by just five percent, while public school employment has gone up 95 percent! More public school employment means more dues for the unions. But does it mean better schools? Certainly not in California, which ranks 45th in the nation in reading and math despite spending over 55 billion dollars a year on education. That's over 52% of the state's total budget. Yet rarely is anyone held accountable for these dismal results. I've personally seen excellent, new teachers lose their jobs while incompetent, and even abusive, veteran teachers keep theirs because of the unions' infamous last in, first out layoff and tenure rules. For these reasons and more, parents almost always prefer school choice when allowed to choose. This is obviously true for wealthy parents who can afford to send their children to any school they want, but it's equally true for middle class and poor parents when they have a choice. And here's the real giveaway: public school teachers are less likely to send their children to public schools when given the choice. Why are most school choice options better? Because teachers at these schools are free from the unions' stifling work rules. In short, they're free to teach. And the administrators at these schools are also free to reward good teachers and fire bad ones. The teachers' unions don't like school choice because it means less money and less power for them. That's why they'll say anything, do anything, and spend any amount to stop it whether in the halls of the legislature, on the campaign trail backing pro-union candidates, or on TV with sweet-sounding commercials. During my public school teaching career, I have worked alongside many other teachers to reform the unions from within. Only when we realized that this wasn't possible did we take our case to a higher power literally: All the way to the United States Supreme Court. The argument behind our lawsuit, Friedrichs v. California Teachers Association, was simple: Teachers should be able to decide for themselves - without fear or coercion - whether or not to fund or join a union. Unfortunately, in a split 4-4 decision, we lost. But I haven't lost hope, because the unions and the politicians do not ultimately have the power. We do. If you believe, like me and millions of others, that parents - not the government - should decide where their children go to school, and that competition will make all schools better, then join the school choice movement. We can have good schools for all our children. We just have to make the choice for choice. I'm Rebecca Friedrichs, mother and California public school teacher, for Prager University.
Much has been made of the Paris Climate Agreement signed by the leaders of 178 countries in 2016. French foreign minister Laurent Fabius, speaking for many, called it a "historic turning point." The head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Gina McCarthy, echoed the minister's remark when she testified before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. The Paris Agreement was, she said, "an incredible achievement." But when pressed by committee members to explain exactly how much this treaty would reduce global temperatures, she would not or could not say. This combination of grand pronouncements and vague specifics is a good strategy for Paris Agreement fans to take. Because the agreement will cost a fortune, but do little to reduce global warming. Consider the Obama administration's signature climate policy, the Clean Power Plan. Using the same climate prediction model that the UN uses, I found that the power plan will accomplish almost nothing. Even if its cuts to carbon dioxide emissions are fully implemented not just for the 14 years that the Paris agreement lasts, but for the rest of the century the Clean Power Plan would reduce the temperature increase in 2100 by just 0.023 degrees Fahrenheit. The President has made further, and grander, promises of future U.S. carbon cuts, but these are only vaguely outlined. In the unlikely event that all of these extra cuts also happen, and are adhered to throughout the rest of the century, the combined reduction in temperatures would be 0.057 degrees. To put it another way, if the U.S. delivers for the whole century on the President's very ambitious rhetoric, it would postpone global warming by about eight months at the end of the century. Now let's add in the rest of the world's Paris promises. If we generously assume that the promised carbon cuts for 2030 are not only met (which itself would be a U.N. first), but sustained, throughout the rest of the century, temperatures in 2100 would drop by 0.3 degrees the equivalent of postponing warming by less than four years. Again, that's using the UN's own climate prediction model. But here's the biggest problem: These miniscule benefits do not come free; quite the contrary. The cost of the Paris climate pact is likely to run to 1 to 2 trillion dollars every year, based on estimates produced by the Stanford Energy Modeling Forum and the Asia Modeling Exercise. In other words, we will spend at least one hundred trillion dollars in order to reduce the temperature, by the end of the century, by a grand total of three tenths of one degree. Some Paris Agreement supporters defend it by claiming that its real impact on temperatures will be much more significant than the U.N. model predicts. But this requires mental gymnastics and heroic assumptions. The Climate Action Tracker, widely cited by Paris Agreement fans, predicts a temperature reduction of 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century. But this prediction is based very heavily on the assumption that even stronger climate policies will be adopted in the future. Actually, 98% of the assumed reductions will come only after 2030, which is what the current Paris agreement covers. And even such wishful thinking won't achieve anything close to the 2 degrees Celsius reduction that has become the somewhat arbitrary, but widely adopted, benchmark to avoid the worst effects of global warming. The actual promised emission reductions under the Paris agreement literally get us just 1 percent of the way to the 2 degrees target. 99 percent of what would be required is put off until after 2030. The Paris Agreement is the wrong solution to a real problem. The right solution will most likely be found through green-energy research and development, like that promoted by Bill Gates and the Breakthrough Coalition. Mr. Gates has announced that private investors are committing $7 billion for clean energy R&D. Instead of political hot air and ever-larger government subsidies of today's inefficient green technologies, those who want to combat climate change should focus on dramatically boosting green energy innovation. The U.S. already shows the way. With its pursuit of fracking, making it safer and more efficient every year, America has drastically reduced the cost of natural gas. This momentous switch from coal to lower-CO2 gas as a source of energy has done far more to drive down carbon-dioxide emissions than any recent government climate policy. Turns out that those politicians who gathered in Paris, France, could learn a lot from Paris, Texas. I'm Bjorn Lomborg, president of the Copenhagen Consensus Center
Are you more valuable than a dog or a cat or, for that matter, a tree? One of the biggest differences between Judeo-Christian values and secular values concerns this very issue: the worth of the human being. According to the Judeo-Christian value system, human beings are infinitely valuable. On the other hand, secular humanism devalues the worth of humans. As ironic as it may sound, the God-based Judeo-Christian value system renders humans infinitely more valuable than any humanistic value system. The reason is simple: if there is no God, human beings are only material beings and therefore not worth anything beyond the matter of which they are composed. But in the Judeo-Christian system human beings are created in the image of God, meaning that human life is sacred. In other words, we are either created in the image of carbon atoms and therefore not worth much more than carbon or we are created in the image of God and therefore infinitely valuable. Our secular, post-Judeo-Christian society has rendered human beings less significant than at any time in Western history. First, the secular denial that human beings are created in God's image has led to humans increasingly being equated with animals. That's why over the course of 30 years of asking high school and college students if they would first try to save their dog or a stranger, two-thirds have always voted against the person. They either don't know what they would do or they actually vote for the dog. Many adults now vote similarly. Why? There are two reasons. One is that with the denial of the authority of higher values such as religious teachings, people increasingly make moral decisions on the basis of how they feel. And since just about everybody feels more for their dog than for a stranger, many people simply choose the dog. The other reason is that, once you get rid of Judeo-Christian values, there is no reason for elevating human worth over that of an animal. That's why people estranged from Judeo-Christian values (including many Jews and Christians) support programs such as Holocaust on Your Plate. Holocaust on Your Plate is a campaign developed by the animal-rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) that teaches that there is no difference between the barbecuing of chickens in America and the burning of Jews in the Holocaust. Why? Because a human and a chicken are of equal worth. So, too, in a notorious Tucson, Arizona case, a woman screamed to firefighters that her three babies were in the burning house. Thinking that the woman's children were trapped inside, the firefighters risked their lives to save the woman's three cats. If you think these two examples are either just theoretical (the dog-stranger question) or extreme (the Tucson mother of cats), here's an issue that is neither theoretical nor extreme: More and more people believe, as PETA does, that even if it would lead to a cure for cancer or AIDS, it would be wrong to experiment on animals. In fact, many animal rights advocates believe that even to save a human life, it would be wrong to kill a pig to obtain a heart valve. The twentieth century showed vividly what happens to human worth when Judeo-Christian values are abandoned. Nazi Germany and the various Communist regimes all rejected Judeo-Christian values and ended up slaughtering the largest number of people in human history. For Nazism, Jews and members of other non-Aryan groups were declared worthless and murdered in the millions. For Communists, human worth was determined solely by Communist parties, which murdered tens of millions of people. Only by rejecting Judeo-Christian values could Nazis declare Jews, Slavs, and others sub-human. And only by rejecting Judeo-Christian values could Communist regimes slaughter those they called class enemies. Individual human life meant nothing. Meanwhile, human slavery was abolished only in the Judeo-Christian world. And, of course, for nearly all those who reject Judeo-Christian values, the human fetus is worthless if its mother deems it so. Finally, there is an increasingly vocal part of the environmentalist movement that also denigrates human worth. For these individuals, the human being is not infinitely precious; trees, and rivers, and mountains are. So, are you more valuable than a dog, or a cat, or a tree? That depends on your value system. I'm Dennis Prager.
The American Revolution started as a tax revolt over a single tax on tea! Now look at us. It seems like everything we do is taxed. The system behind these taxes is a bureaucratic monstrosity; a dead weight on the economy. And it erodes our trust in the government that's taxing us. If you have enough lawyers, lobbyists, and loopholes at your disposal maybe you can game the system. That's fine for big corporations and wealthy individuals, but what about the small business owner or the middle class taxpayer? He just has to shut up and pay up. Nothing better illustrates the disaster that our tax system has become than the mother of all taxes: the federal income tax code. This tax alone, with all its attendant rulings and interpretations, is estimated to be about 10 million words and rising! Several years ago, Money magazine took a hypothetical family's finances and gave the numbers to 46 tax preparers. Forty-six different estimates came back. In some cases those differences ran into the thousands of dollars of what the family owed. This from experts who are considered to be the best in the business. But the taxes themselves are only part of the cost of this toxic code. There's also the cost of compliance the time, money and effort it takes Americans to prepare their taxes. A George Mason University study puts the annual cost of compliance as high as $378 billion and the total annual economic cost (including work hours) at more than $600 billion. Again, these are annual costs as in every year! That's a lot of money that could be used in more productive ways - creating new products, new services, new medical devices, new cures for diseases. Clearly, the time has come to drive a stake through the heart of this tax monster. So, what should be done? Like most things, the best solution is the most simple: A single flat tax with no deductions, except for a deduction for each adult and for each child. Fill out a sheet of paper or key in a few numbers on your computer, and you're done. This one change would not only make every citizen's life easier, it would also transform government, our economy, and our society by ending the complexity that gives bureaucrats and politicians so much power. They have power because they're the ones who dole out the tax favors. It wasn't always this way. There was a time when corporations primarily lobbied Washington to keep government out of their businesses. That has changed. In the words of The Atlantic, The evolution of business lobbying from a sparse reactive force into a ubiquitous and increasingly proactive one is among the most important transformations in American politics over the last 40 years. This favor-seeking is centered on getting special treatment and tax breaks. A flat tax will help us begin to scale back that special interest-loving, crony-capitalist big government that we all complain about. Everyone would pay less - not only in taxes, but also in compliance. Investment and job creation would skyrocket. We'd experience a recovery that would grow the tax base and - irony of ironies - ultimately generate more revenue for government. I go into this in much greater detail in my book, Reviving America, but here, in essence, is how it works. Everyone - individuals and corporations - pays a 17 percent flat rate. This single rate is absolutely critical. Whenever we have two or more tax rates, they're like rabbits: they breed. We saw that with the 1986 tax reforms, which consisted of two rates. They've since multiplied into the seven we have today. Well, you might argue, this sounds great for the rich, and even the middle class, but what about the poor? Seventeen percent is a big burden. That's why, under this plan, a family of four who makes less than $52,800 would pay no income tax. That's double the current federal poverty level. This will let people at low income levels keep more of their money. And for those who think the rich should pay more, they will. Prior to the passage of the tax cuts that President Ronald Reagan pushed through Congress in 1981, the top one percent of American earners accounted for nearly 18 percent of federal personal income tax revenue. By 1988, that same group accounted for nearly 28 percent, an increase of 10 percentage points in only 7 years. By eliminating loopholes and requiring everyone to pay their fair share, the flat tax offers a model of tax fairness. More than 40 countries and jurisdictions have enacted the flat tax. When all the facts are considered, the real question is not whether America should implement this vital reform, but what are we waiting for? It's time for another tax revolution. I'm Steve Forbes for Prager University.
People with different job skills and responsibilities get paid different amounts. That's no surprise to anyone. No one thinks it's strange for the President of the United States to earn more than the president of your local school board, after all. But it's something that often gets forgotten in the debate about people who earn the minimum wage. Let's say you own a home with a large lawn and there are several teenagers in the neighborhood interested in mowing that lawn. You might pick the one who will charge the lowest price or Ned well, because he asked first. Because the skills needed to mow the lawn are pretty basic, you're confident the job will be done to your satisfaction. Now let's say the government passes a law that says you now need to pay at least 40% more than you intended. What do you do? You might simply decide to start mowing the lawn yourself or you might become a lot pickier in deciding who gets the job. You may switch to the person who does it with the most attention to detail, which isn't Ned's strong point. So now Ned is unemployed. Well the same thing happens when the government increases the minimum wage. In accounting terms, a higher minimum wage means employees are more expensive. When this happens, business owners often lay off workers simply because they can't afford the added expense, and it makes good business-sense to keep the most skilled employees (like our lawn-mowing scenario). Unfortunately, it's the lower-skilled workers -- who may need the raise the most -- who are out of the job and are often the ones hurt by the unintended consequences.
Ward Cleaver, the iconic father of the 1950s TV Show, Leave It to Beaver, is a stud. I'm quite serious. And, no, this isn't about nostalgia for America in the 1950s. This is about a man of his time, yet timeless. But to appreciate him, we first have to get past the noise. A loud corner of American culture has been rebelling against the image of the 1950s since, oh... the 1950s. Most of that scorn has been directed at the Ozzie-and-Harriet image of American suburban bliss, specifically dad. Well, enough already. Can we at least entertain the idea that in the rejection of that stereotypical 1950s suburban dad image, we threw some metaphorical babies out with the bathwater? That if today's men modeled Ward Cleaver, America and the world would be better places? Sure, compared with current pop icons, he comes across as boring and buttoned-down. But it's a very incomplete picture. Of Ward Cleaver we can also say this: He's a man who takes care of business. He doesn't make excuses. He doesn't whine. He doesn't brood in defeat. He knows that his hard work and persistence will eventually win the day, if not this day. And there's a lot he's simply outgrown. He never had any interest in perpetuating his own adolescence. He's a grown-up who accepts marriage and fatherhood as the life of an adult. Now, we can quibble about his methods, but we can't dispute that he loves his wife and kids, that they know he loves them, and that he tries to do what's best for them - usually pretty successfully. What is not in dispute is that he's the man of the house, that he wears that title with pride, and everyone, including his wife, likes that fact. Ward wasn't alone. There were lots of other iconic dads of that era: Ozzie Nelson of The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet; Jim Anderson from Father Knows Best; one could argue George Bailey in the 1946 film, It's a Wonderful Life. They were grown-ups who had already been through a Great Depression and, in many cases, were veterans of World War II or, later, the Korean War. Their archetype outlasted the 1950s - Steve Douglas of My Three Sons, Mike Brady of The Brady Bunch, Howard Cunningham in Happy Days, and Cliff Huxtable in The Cosby Show (we're talking TV characters here) shared similar traits. Like all human beings who have ever lived and whoever will live, these men had flaws. But in the end, they were solid and dependable. If you had to summarize them in one word, that word would be responsible. Maybe they seem like such throwbacks now because so much of our culture has thoroughly embraced irresponsibility. But if you ask women what they really want in a man - or at least all those women who have grown out of their adolescent fascination with bad boys they may not say Ward Cleaver, but they'll describe most, if not all, of his traits: Reliable; trustworthy; smart; confident, but not smug. Funny and capable of laughing at himself. A man who's successful at work, but not a workaholic. A man who likes children, but is not a child himself. Perhaps most importantly, devoted to his family. It's an indisputably masculine figure. And make no mistake, that's what most women want and what all children need. Now, I'm not saying that the Ward Cleavers of the world are off-limits to criticism or even mockery; I'm just pointing out that there was a time not that long ago when men were expected to work hard, be good husbands, neighbors and friends; to raise children and to act as role models for the next generation. Sure, laugh at them, but remember they are what our world is built on. And here is where Ward Cleaver fits in today, where he's never gone out of style not really: Getting married, being a father, working your way to owning a home. These are probably the best things that will ever happen to most of us. Our culture snickers at Ward Cleaver types, but it is propagating a falsehood when it paints them as stifled, miserable, hollowed-out men yearning for their carefree bachelor days and regretting their commitments. What leaves a man depressed and hollow inside is not attachments, but the lack of them. Consider this: If all the slackers in the world disappeared tomorrow, the video game industry would collapse, but if all the Ward Cleavers of the world disappeared tomorrow, civilization would collapse. I'm Jim Geraghty of The National Review for Prager University.
I was born to hate Jews. It was part of my life. I never questioned it. I was not born in Iran or Syria. I was born in England. My parents moved there from Pakistan. Theirs was the typical immigrant story: Move to the West in the hope of making a better life for themselves and their children. We were a devout Muslim family, but not extremist or radical in any way. We only wished the best for everyone -- everyone except the Jews. The Jews, we believed, were aliens living in stolen Muslim land, occupiers who were engaged in a genocide against the Palestinian people. Our hatred, therefore, was justified and righteous. And it made me and my friends vulnerable to the arguments of radical extremists. If the Jews were as evil as we had always believed, mustn't those who support them Christians, Americans, and others in the West be just as evil? Beginning in the 1990s, speakers and teachers at mosques and in schools began to endlessly repeat this theme: We were not Western. We were not British. We were Muslims, first and only. Our loyalty was to our religion and to our fellow Muslims. We owed nothing to the Western nations that welcomed us. As Westerners, they were our enemies. All of this had its desired effect; at least, it did on me. It changed the way that I saw the world. I began to see the suffering of Muslims, including in Britain, as the fault of Western imperialism. The West was at war with us, and the Jews controlled the West. My experience at university in Britain only enhanced my increasingly radical beliefs. Hating Israel was a badge of honor. Stage an anti-Israel, pro-Palestinian rally and you were sure to draw a large, approving crowd. While at university I decided the protests and propaganda against Israel were not enough. True jihad demanded violence. So I made plans to join the real fight. I would leave college and join a terrorist training camp in Pakistan. But fortunately for me, fate intervened...In a bookstore. I came across a book called The Case for Israel by Harvard law professor, Alan Dershowitz. The case for Israel? What case could there be? The title itself made me furious, and I began to read the pages almost as an act of defiance. How ill-informed, how stupid could this guy be to defend the indefensible? Well, he was a Jew. That had to be the answer. Still, I read. And what I read challenged all of my dogmas about Israel and the Jews: I read that it wasn't Israel that created the Palestinian refugee crisis; it was the Arab countries, the United Nations, and the corrupt Palestinian leadership. I read that Jews didn't exploit the Holocaust to create the state of Israel the movement to create a modern Jewish state dated back to the 19th century and ultimately to the beginnings of the Jewish people almost 4,000 years ago. And I read that Israel is not engaged in genocide against the Palestinians. On the contrary, the Palestinian population has actually doubled in just twenty years. All this did was make me angrier. I needed to prove Dershowitz wrong, to see with my own eyes how racist and oppressive Israel really was. So I bought a plane ticket. I would travel to Israel, the home of my enemy. And that's when everything changed. Everything. What I saw with my own eyes was even more challenging than what Dershowitz had written. Instead of apartheid, I saw Muslims, Christians and Jews coexisting. Instead of hate, I saw acceptance, even compassion. I saw a raucous, modern, liberal democracy, full of flaws, certainly, but fundamentally decent. I saw a country that wanted nothing more than to live in peace with its neighbors. I saw my hatred melting before my eyes. I knew right then what I had to do. Too many people on this planet are consumed with the same hatred that consumed me. They have been taught to despise the Jewish State many Muslims by their religion; many others by their college professors or student groups. So here is my challenge to anyone who feels this way: do what I did, seek out the truth for yourself. If the truth can change me, it can change anyone. I'm Kasim Hafeez for Prager University.
As Americans we love driving. US drivers travel an average of 11 billion miles a day, which is almost 40 miles per person. But driving isn't cheap, especially when you think about all the hidden taxes that you might not notice when you commute to work, or go on a family road trip. Take gasoline prices: for every $40 you spend filling up your tank, almost eight dollars goes to the government in taxes. The federal gas tax is 18.4 cents per gallon. And that doesn't even count state gas taxes, which averaged another 27 cents per gallon. And in some states like New York, the gas tax can surpass past 50 cents per gallon meaning lots of pain the pump. Government regulations only hurt more. One recent proposal to impose a $10 tax on each barrel of oil, for example, would cost an estimated 25 cents per gallon in addition to federal and state taxes. This would not only increase prices at the pump, but also lead to unintended consequences such as job loss and lower economic output. Research has found that a $10 per barrel tax could cost the US as many as 137,000 full-time jobs, and almost $50 billion in lost revenue every year. Gas isn't the only hidden tax you pay when you hit the road. When drivers use the highway or cross a bridge they're paying the government billions of dollars in toll fees. In 2013 US toll agencies collected $13 billion from travelers. In addition to gas taxes and drivers' personal spending on transportation, such as oil changes and car repairs, US households bear an average burden of more than $1,100 dollars per year in additional travel related costs. This includes an estimated $597 per household dedicated to road construction and repair every year. So the next time you get in your car remember that the government has the meter running.
The change from wishing fellow Americans "Merry Christmas" to wishing them "Happy Holidays" is a very significant development. Proponents of "Happy Holidays" argue it's no big deal - proponents of "Merry Christmas" are making a mountain out of a molehill. But the "Happy Holidays" advocates want it both ways. They dismiss opponents as hysterical; but at the same time, in addition to replacing Merry Christmas with "Happy Holidays, they have relentlessly pushed to replace Christmas vacation with winter vacation and Christmas party with "Holiday Party. So, then, which is it? Is all this elimination of the word Christmas" important or not? The answer is obvious. It's very important. That's why so much effort is devoted to substituting other words for Christmas. And these efforts have been extraordinarily successful. In place of the universal Merry Christmas of my youth, in recent decades I have been wished "Happy Holidays" by every waiter and waitress in every restaurant I have dined; by everyone who welcomes me at any business; by my flight attendants and pilots; and by just about everyone else. When I respond, "Thank you. Merry Christmas!" I often sense that I have actually created some tension. Many of those I wish "Merry Christmas" are probably relieved to hear someone who feels free to utter the C word, but all the sensitivity training they've had to undergo creates cognitive dissonance. The opponents of "Merry Christmas" and other uses of the word "Christmas" know exactly what they're doing. They're disingenuous when they dismiss defenders of "Merry Christmas" as fabricating some War on Christmas. Of course it's a war on Christmas, or, more precisely, a war on the religious nature of America. The left in America, like the left in Europe, wants to create a thoroughly secular society. Not a secular government which is a desirable goal, and which, in any event, has always been the case in America but a secular society. Most people do not realize that the left believes in secularism as fervently as religious Jews and Christians believe in the Bible. That's why "Merry Christmas" bothers secular activists. It's a blatant reminder of just how religious America is and always has been. So, here's a prediction: Activists on the left will eventually seek to remove Christmas as a national holiday. Now, the left doesn't announce that its agenda is to thoroughly secularize American and European societies. Instead, they offer the inclusiveness argument: that "Merry Christmas" or "Christmas party" or "Christmas vacation" is not "inclusive." This inclusiveness argument plays on Americans' highly developed sense of decency. But the argument is preposterous: Who, exactly, is being excluded when one wishes someone "Merry Christmas?" Non-Christians? I'm a non-Christian. I'm a Jew. Christmas is not a religious holy day for me. But I'm an American, and Christmas is a national holiday in my country. It is, therefore, my holiday though not my holy day as much as it is for my fellow Americans who are Christian. That's why it's not surprising that it was an American Jew, Irving Berlin, who wrote "White Christmas," one of America's most popular Christmas songs. In fact, according to a Jewish musician writing in the New York Times, Almost all the most popular Christmas songs were written by Jews. Apparently all these American Jews felt quite included by Christmas! By not wishing me a Merry Christmas, you are not being inclusive. You are excluding me from one of my nation's national holidays. But even if Christmas were not a national holiday, I would want pilots to wish their passengers "Merry Christmas, companies to have Christmas parties, and schools to continue to have Christmas vacations. Just because I don't personally celebrate Christmas, why would I want to drop the word "Christmas" when the holiday is celebrated by 90 percent of my fellow Americans? It borders on the misanthropic, not to mention the mean-spirited, to want to deny nearly all of your fellow citizens the joy of having Christmas parties or being wished a "Merry Christmas." The vast majority of Americans who celebrate Christmas, and who treat non-Christians so well, deserve better. So, please say "Merry Christmas" and "Christmas party and Christmas vacation." If you don't, you're not "inclusive." You're hurtful. I'm Dennis Prager.
I want to tell you about an essential vitamin you've probably never heard of. If you're a parent, or plan to be one, it might be more important to your child's growth than all other vitamins combined. And only you, a parent, can provide it. I call it Vitamin N. The word No. More and more children, I find, are suffering from Vitamin N deficiency. And they, their parents, and our entire culture are paying the price. Let me illustrate my point with a story that's quite typical. A father, I'll call him Bill, gave his son, age five, pretty much everything the little boy asked for. Like most parents, Bill wanted more than anything for his son to be happy. But he wasn't. Instead he was petulant, moody, and often sullen. He was also having problems getting along with other children. In addition, he was very demanding and rarely if ever expressed any appreciation, let alone gratitude, for all the things Bill and his wife were giving him. Was his son depressed, Bill wanted to know? Did he need therapy? His son, I told him, was suffering the predictable ill effects of being over-indulged. What he needed was a healthy and steady dose of Vitamin N. Over-indulgencea deficiency of Vitamin N - leads to its own form of addiction. When the point of diminishing returns is passed (and it's passed fairly early on), the receiving of things begins to generate nothing but want for more things. One terrible effect of this is that our children are becoming accustomed to a material standard that's out of kilter with what they can ever hope to achieve as adults. Consider also that many, if not most, children attain this level of affluence not by working, sacrificing, or doing their best, but by whining, demanding, and manipulating. So in the process of inflating their material expectations, we also teach children that something can be had for next to nothing. Not only is that a falsehood, it's also one of the most dangerous, destructive attitudes a person can acquire. This may go a long way toward explaining why the mental health of children in the 1950s when kids got a lot less -- was significantly better than the mental health of today's kids. Since the 50s, and especially in the last few decades, as indulgence has become the parenting norm, the rates of child and teen depression have skyrocketed. Children who grow up believing in the something-for-nothing fairy tale are likely to become emotionally stunted, self-centered adults. Then, when they themselves become parents, they're likely to overdose their children with material things the piles of toys, plushies, and gadgets one finds scattered around most households. In that way, over indulgence - a deficiency of Vitamin N - becomes an inherited disease, an addiction passed from one generation to the next. This also explains why children who get too much of what they want rarely take proper care of anything they have. Why should they? After all, experience tells them that more is always on the way. Children deserve better. They deserve to have parents attend to their needs for protection, affection, and direction. Beyond that: They deserve to hear their parents say no far more often than yes when it comes to their whimsical desires. They deserve to learn the value of constructive, creative effort as opposed to the value of effort expended whining, lying on the floor kicking and screaming, or playing one parent against the other. They deserve to learn that work is the only truly fulfilling way of getting anything of value in life, and that the harder they work, the more ultimately fulfilling the outcome. In the process of trying to protect children from frustration, parents have turned reality upside down. A child raised in this topsy-turvy fashion may not have the skills needed to stand on his or her own two feet when the time comes to do so. Here's a simple rule: Turn your children's world right-side up by giving them all of what they truly need, but no more than 25 percent of what they simply want. I call this the Principle of Benign Deprivation. When all is said and done, the most character-building two-letter word in the English language is no. Vitamin N. Dispense it frequently. You'll be happier in the long run, and so will your child. I'm John Rosemond, author and family psychologist, for Prager University.
The next time you hear a politician call for common sense gun control, listen for the details. You are likely to be treated to a torrent of platitudes about assault weapons, gun show sales and other half-measures. These sorts of proposals are rooted in a theory of gun control that has been around since the 1960s. The basic idea is that fewer guns equal less gun crime. But for this theory to have even a chance of working, drastic reductions in the supply of guns will be necessary. Everything else amounts to security theatre. The late Senator Howard Metzenbaum, a strong gun control advocate, explained it this way: If you don't ban all guns you might as well ban none of them. But few, if any, politicians who call for common sense gun control have the courage to propose this. Even putting aside the issue of the Second Amendment to the Constitution, which affirms the right to keep and bear arms, a gun ban has no broad popular support. Never mind the conservative states, handgun ban referendums failed by large margins in two of our most liberal states - Massachusetts in 1976 and California in 1982. No serious attempts have been made since then. Recently Australia's gun control efforts have gained new prominence as a possible model for the United States to follow. Let's take a closer look at Australia. In 1996, after a lunatic used a semiautomatic rifle to murder 34 people in Tasmania, the Australian government banned all semi-automatic rifles and repeating shotguns. Owners of roughly 700,000 registered firearms about a quarter of the country's three million total guns were required to turn them in for destruction. The government called this a buyback, but in fact no one had a choice. As my research shows, this model will not work in the United States for the simple reason that the US has roughly 325 million guns. This is orders of magnitude more than any other country. Even if the Australian plan were tried in the US and worked to perfection, we'd still be left with over 200 million guns, including handguns which account for nearly 80 percent of gun crime. But gun confiscation has never worked to perfection, and sometimes threatens to make things worse. The 2007 International Small Arms Survey studied 72 countries that attempted to enforce gun confiscation or registration on their citizens. They found massive defiance of these laws, with only about a third of owners complying. If Americans defy gun bans at just the average rate that has occurred internationally, then we should expect tens of millions of guns to flood into the black market. Not surprisingly, politicians advocating for gun control prefer to avoid the thorny issues that confiscation raises. Instead, they seek to have it both ways. They pursue the votes of gun owners by paying lip service to the Second Amendment and offering assurances that they only want to ban the bad guns like rifles with pistol grips. And at the same time, they pander to their core constituents with broad gun ban rhetoric, and supply control proposals that will have a marginal effect at best. And when these meager efforts fail to pass or to work? Blame the gun lobby. So, to the glib critics of America's gun culture, we should make this demand: If supply controls are the answer, describe precisely the full program of supply-side policies you propose to stop the gun crimes that we all abhor. And then tell us how those policies will also allow lawful gun owners to keep and protect themselves with firearms. If you cannot square these two things, then you must convince Americans that they are better off under policies that would disarm good people, in a fruitless attempt to keep bad men from getting guns. I'm Nicholas Johnson, Professor of Law at Fordham University for Prager University.
Sometimes you hear in the news about a U.S. Company buying a foreign company and moving its headquarters overseas. Well, this can happen for many reasons. One of them is a tax inversion But what are tax inversions, why are companies doing them and why should you care? Here's the reason why. U.S. companies pay corporate tax rates of around 35 percent or more on their profits, while their foreign competitors pay much less in their countries. And if your company has locations or sells products in overseas, you get taxed on those profits in the foreign country and again when you bring that money back to the United States. This is called double taxation and your foreign competitors don't have to pay it. This hurts your company's ability to compete, grow and reinvest in new products and jobs. Hmmmmnow that doesn't make sense. So, back to the tax inversion. If you're a company based in the U.S. and want to make sure you stay competitive with your foreign counterparts, and protect your company from foreign takeovers, what can you do? The current U.S. tax system allows you to buy a foreign company and use their headquarters as your own. That way you don't have to pay the higher U.S. tax rates on foreign profits even though you still pay U.S. taxes on your profits in America. This move allows you to keep a lot more of your profits and invest in new factories, employees, and products. Look at it this way: Let's say you lived in one city but commuted to another. If the rules were set-up so you were taxed by both cities on your income - essentially double taxation - you would probably consider moving to the city with the lower tax rates. It wouldn't mean you were greedy, or disloyal - you would simply be working within the system of rules that exists. Nowthat makes sense. So the next time you hear a politician complaining about American companies moving overseas, remember it was politicians who passed the laws that encourage companies to move away in the first place. If politicians would stop fighting with each other, lower corporate tax rates and end double taxation, U.S. companies could compete better and wouldn't need to invert to protect jobs and their businesses.
Here's the hard truth: Conservative values based on the Judeo-Christian worldview that have made America great, are under attack like never before by the hostile, anti-American, anti-God forces on the left. They know if they reach and influence this upcoming generation, they will be closer to reaching their objective which is to completely change America. And as you know, they've already made gigantic strides. So we can't afford to sit back and watch anymore as our country slips away. We have to fight. And we need to fight on the front lines where the real war is: In the minds of young people, on the new battlefield of social media. It's where millions and millions of young people spend hours and hours a day consuming content. Content that has the power to change minds, for better or for worse. This is where PragerU comes in. Our short, informative videos present clear, concise, logical, and fact-based reasoning on issues facing Americans today. PragerU videos have 150 million annual views 60 percent of which are seen by those under age 35. According to our Facebook survey data, 98 percent of all the viewers said the arguments presented in the videos have helped them better articulate and defend their values and beliefs. And get this: An astonishing 41 percent of viewers changed their minds on at least one issue. That means PragerU videos work. So we have to do 2 things: continue producing these effective videos and get them in front of more and more people. And that's where you come in. With your donation, we'll be able to produce more videos and reach more young people. Period. It's that simple. By spreading American values far and wide, we can create a critical mass of young people who can perpetuate the movement to preserve the greatest country on earth. Donate today to preserve and proclaim American values.
Democratic socialism. It's not the same as socialism socialism, because it's democratic. Right? Or something, right? People are buying that; people buy that now, right? Apparently. As though adding the word democratic in front of a word changes what it means. Just because we toss something to a vote doesn't change what that something is, nor does it alter whether that something is inherently good or bad. A couple of examples, because I know you'll ask: Hamas was democratically elected as the government in Gaza despite the fact that the destruction of not only Israel, but the eradication of all Jews, is in their official charter. Robert Mugabe, or Bobby Mugabe if you prefer, was democratically elected by a loving majority in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe! How's that working out? Venezuela? Well, Hugo Chavez, noted personal favorite friend of Sean Penn, to whom he constantly pointed as being unfairly characterized as a dictator when, in fact, he was democratically elected as a socialist. Well, how'd that workout for Venezuela? Well, it's now on the brink of collapse despite it being one of the most resource rich nations in the entire world. Basic things like eggs, milk, flour, and toilet paper are either too expensive for the average Venezuelan or simply out of stock out of stock, mind you... democratically. I know, some of you will say, Well that's not fair, because really we knew all along it technically was a dictatorship. Ok that's fair; let's move on to example number two. Denmark? Ok, here's the time where you point to an entirely homogenous population about one sixtieth the size of America's, and you point to that as the blueprint? Ok let's go there. This is a place where the middle class can't even afford a car because of the 180% new-car tax. And the Prime Minister was so fed up with Americans pointing to it as a beacon for socialist success that he felt compelled to clarify, I would like to make one thing clear: Denmark is far from a socialist planned economy; Denmark is a market economy. Sweden? I love Sweden! Ok, great bikini team, and thanks to that country my armoire now doubles as a bookcase. Speaking of which, the founder of IKEA let's be honest, the only real cool export from Sweden aside from a few good hockey players left Sweden because of the stifling high tax rate. So, Sweden good place, not bad people but a successful model for a viable economy in today's global market? Incorrect. The fact is that, over time, the greatest enemy of socialism is reality. The reality that human nature will invariably pull certain people toward individualism and success and others toward laziness and collectivism. The tension between the makers and the takers always always! leads to socialism's inevitable collapse. But I know that I can give you examples of failed socialist economies until I'm blue in the face, and you won't care. Because at least socialism is inherently more morally altruistic than the evil, greedy capitalistic war mongering seen in the West. Greed? What's more greedy than wanting to take from someone else something that you haven't earned? Unlike capitalism free enterprise, which can only occur truly through voluntary transaction socialism can only occur at gunpoint. That's what it comes down to. If you don't pay your taxes, once you get through the IRS and the auditing and the lawyers and the PR stunts, people make you give the government your money, increasing amount of your money the more successful you are, or they send in scary men with guns to take you away. Now, so long as the people having their stuff taken away at gunpoint are in the minority, and the majority feels that they'll get to benefit from more said taken stuff, you'll always be able to win that decision through a popular vote and claim the moral high ground through democracy. Putting the word democratic in front your socialism doesn't make it any inherently more moral, nor less violent. Did you get that, American wannabe socialists? Also, get a job. Please, like a real job You'll probably have to shave first. I'm Steven Crowder for Prager University
This is the United States of America. You are totally free to express your political views. No one is going to tell you what you can say or how you can say it, right? But what if you thought you'd be audited by the IRS or have your business boycotted or even lose your job? Would you speak freely then? This isn't a hypothetical question. It's happening to Americans right now. It's what I call The Intimidation Game. The object of this very real game is to make political opponents pay a high price for expressing their opinions. It was a standard technique in the Jim Crow South in the 1950's. It was used by racist southern Democrats to shut up black civil rights groups like the NAACP. And now these tactics have been revived and improved upon by today's Democratic Party and their allies on the Progressive Left. They want to shut up conservatives; just like racists once wanted to shut up blacks and their liberal supporters. They do it in three ways. First, they harass; Second, they investigate and prosecute; and third, they blackmail. Tactic number one: Harass. They sic federal and state agencies and bureaucrats on their political enemies. Remember the IRS targeting scandal that began in 2010? That's when the IRS systematically denied or delayed non-profit status to more than 400 citizen-activist groups, almost all conservative. These groups, representing tens of thousands of Americans, clearly met the IRS's tax-exempt standards. But the IRS delay and denial made it impossible for these groups to raise or spend money during the 2012 presidential election. Had they been able to, would the election have turned out differently? We'll never know. Some of these groups are still waiting for their nonprofit approval. Democrats continue to claim the scandal was the result of some rogue IRS agents who didn't understand the law. Not true. We know from documents obtained through Congressional investigations and the Freedom of Information Act that the IRS was taking its cue from powerful Democrats and their left-wing allies, like MoveOn.org. For example, Michigan Senator Carl Levin repeatedly pressured the agency to investigate conservative non-profits. Meanwhile, in speeches, President Barack Obama warned about shadowy Tea Party groups. Lois Lerner, the head of the IRS's non-profit division and a Democratic Party loyalist, took the hint. Tactic number two: Investigate and prosecute. In Wisconsin, Democrat prosecutors engaged in a bogus campaign-finance investigation into conservative groups that had supported Wisconsin's Republican Governor Scott Walker. The prosecutors subpoenaed emails and financial records of the groups and its employees. They staged pre-dawn raids on the homes of Wisconsin conservatives, confiscating computers and correspondence. Then, they warned the victims of these phony investigations and terrorizing raids that they'd go to jail if they told anyone what was happening to them. It took the state Supreme Court to end this use of the government to suppress political opponents. But the message was sent by Democrats in Wisconsin: cross us, and you will pay a steep price. Tactic number three: Blackmail. The American Legislative Exchange Council, also known as ALEC, is a nonprofit that is very good at getting free-market legislation passed at the state level. It is supported by a number of corporate donors, Coca-Cola and Kraft once among them. In 2012 left-wing groups who have long hated ALEC had an idea: Target ALEC's corporate donors. Threaten to run ads branding them as racists or climate deniers unless they pull their support. It worked. More than 100 major donors ended their funding. As if these three tactics weren't bad enough, the Left has added a new weapon to its intimidation arsenal: forced disclosure of political donors. This is when the names of people who give money to a cause, or a candidate, are made public. Disclosure can be good when it lets citizens keep track of whose money may be influencing politicians. But it's bad when it's used to target and punish average Americans who make political donations. Left-wing activists in California used financial disclosure records to assemble a searchable map of every person who donated to California's Prop 8 campaign supporting traditional marriage. The donors on that list had their cars keyed, their windows broken, and their businesses flash-mobbed. Some Prop 8 supporters even lost their jobs, most notably the CEO of Mozilla Firefox, Brendan Eich. So, how do we stop this intimidation? First, learn to recognize the Left's bully tactics. They're not subtle. Second, be very wary of initiatives to increase financial disclosure. They sound good, but they're almost always just Left-wing attempts to get new names of people to intimidate. And finally, we must fight back. They can only win if we let them. We can't let them. Our freedom depends on it. I'm Kimberly Strassel of The Wall Street Journal for Prager University.
I live in Guatemala and I work throughout Latin America. And I want to speak to the millions of fortunate Hispanic immigrants living in the United States legally or not. I have a question for you: why do you support the same policies in the US that caused you to flee your home country? The policies I'm talking about are those that lead to a bigger and bigger central government. You know only too well that the more power the government has, the more corrupt it becomes. My home country, like most other nations in Central and South America, is very poor. 54% of the population lives in poverty, and 13% live in extreme poverty. Half of all children under five are chronically malnourished. Crippling government corruption is the norm. Opening a new business can take months, even years, because of a multitude of regulations that are designed to line the pockets of bureaucrats. So, the cost is much too high for the average citizen. Quite simply, unless you're politically connected in Guatemala, you probably want to leave. And in the last 20 years, many Guatemalans have left - or, to put it more honestly, they fled. The fortunate ones reach the United States, the freest and wealthiest nation in human history. There are at least 1 million Guatemalans living in the U.S. Nearly every Mexican and Central and South American immigrant in the United States, whether they immigrated legally or illegally, moved or fled to the US for the same reasons - economic opportunity and the freedom to shape their own lives. In short, you came to the United States to participate in what Americans call the American Dream. But have you ever asked yourself: Why is the United States so free, so much less corrupt, and so much more affluent than any Latin American country? The answer lies first and foremost in the unique American belief in limited government. Why? Because the smaller the government, the less the corruption. And the smaller the government, the more individual freedom and personal responsibility and given those things, along with hard work and talent, you can accomplish your life's goals. So back to my question: Why would you support policies that keep expanding the power of the government when they are the very policies that doomed your home countries? Is it because you think that when Democrats offer you free stuff, it means they really care about you? Do you think that when Republicans talk about enforcing immigration laws, it means they are going to send you back? Let's be honest. You didn't come here for free stuff. You came for the economic opportunity that allows you to work and earn. And of course a nation has an obligation to enforce its borders. Certainly every country in Central and South America does in fact, much more so than the US. Perhaps you believe that your home country is poor not because of failed socialism and corrupt big government, but because of issues unrelated to ideology - not enough natural resources, imperialism, and so on. Or, worse, you believe that the US has gotten rich on the backs of poorer nations. But these narratives are false. There are many nations blessed with abundant natural resources that are poor and they are poor overwhelmingly because of corrupt governments and policies that destroy incentives to produce. Look at Venezuela, which has vast oil and mineral reserves, but has shortages of every basic necessity. Why? Because of socialist policies; because of those same deceiving politicians who promised to fight for the people, and give you free stuff. Are you going to fall for these lies again in your adopted country? Do you think by electing politicians who will fight for the people, fight for social justice, and raise taxes on the one percent who are exploiting the wealth of the 99 percent that you will get ahead? In other words, will you support the same policies and vote for the same types of politicians here who made such a mess back home? The United States became wealthy because its government stayed out of the way of its citizens. The more power you give to the government, the less power you have to control your own life. Prosperity and opportunity diminish as government grows. So, why did you, like so many of my fellow Guatemalans, come to the U.S.? Because your society was broken. You chose to make a new life in the United States. You could have gone to another Latin American country with a similar culture and the same language as your home country. But you didn't. Because the United States is different. Please help keep it that way. I'm Gloria Alvarez author of The Populist Deception for Prager University
Politicians in Congress and several states are talking about raising the minimum wage. Unfortunately for employees most people don't realize the unintended consequences when the government starts setting pay rates. Minimum wage or entry level jobs are generally for high school, college and those people seeking part time work. They are the first rung on the employment ladder. These jobs often teach what you don't learn in school. Important skills like providing good customer experience, being prompt on delivering results, how to manage money responsibly, and how to work well on a team. What happens to those jobs when the government gets involved in setting pay rates? Here is one example. A typical minimum wage or entry level job is in the restaurant industry where the profit margins are very low. In fact restaurants only make $5 in profit for every $100 dollars in sales. One proposal in Congress would increase the minimum wage for tipped employees by over 200%. If the cost for employees goes up because the government increases the minimum wage for entry level jobs, what do you think will happen to employees? The math simply doesn't add up. If the minimum wage is increased by that much a restaurant owner will either have to increase prices or hire less people to be able to pay fewer of them more. So if you worked in that restaurant what would you recommend as an answer? You can't raise prices much. That drives away customers. So most businesses in the service industry find a way to operate with fewer workers or reduce hours for current employees. Some may turn to self-service to eliminate the need for as many employees. The Congressional Budget Office recently determined that current proposals to raise the minimum wage could cost as many as 500,000 lost jobs.
*Text sound* When engaging in political discussions with your leftist friends, *Text Sound* *Text sound* it's always a good idea to be prepared. Now you can be. With the new Pragerpedia app, you can refute leftist talking points with a click of a button. Swipe left or right for a random display of the most important issues, or pull down the categories menu for specific options. Search any topic to get access to key facts. Flip the fact card over for supporting arguments and sources. Instantly share your favorite facts on social media. Tap the video icon to access the related video, and hundreds of other PragerU videos. Swipe down to save the fact in a stash of your favorite facts. So, the next time a subject comes up, You'll be prepared. It's time to arm yourself with the facts, download the Pragerpedia app today.
Is the world going into a water crisis? It certainly seems that way. The US government predicts that by 2025, 60% of the world's landmass, and 40 of our 50 US states, will experience water shortages -- some of them extreme. The US Intelligence Community sees worldwide water shortages as a major national security risk. Water scarcity helped trigger the Syrian civil war and has been a key reason why Africans have migrated in large numbers to Europe. More of this can be expected. But there is cause for optimism. And it comes from a very unlikely place -- a country in the middle of a desert. That country is Israel. Compelled by necessity and powered by remarkable technological innovations, Israel has become the world's water superpower. By reusing waste water, by making desalination affordable, by rethinking irrigation, and by developing an array of sophisticated water conservation techniques, Israel not only hasa sufficiency of water, but an abundance of it. What Israel has done, other nations can do, too, including its Mideast neighbors. And while it's a lot to hope for, cooperation on water issues could become the basis for cooperation on other issues as well. For Israel, an obsession with water is not new. The word water appears 600 times in the Hebrew Bible. For over 2,000 years daily prayers for rain in the Land of Israel have been a part of traditional Jewish ritual. For the founders of the modern State of Israel, water was not only a daily concern, but a paramount question of future survival. Vast quantities of water would be needed for the millions of immigrants who would make their way to the new country. Without plenty of water, economic growth would be impossible. But where was the water going to come from? It was a daunting challenge, but one which Israel overcame. Today, while other nations, even ones with far more natural water resources, struggle with water management, Israel has a surplus of useable water. The desert, as Israel's founders dreamed, is blooming. Not only does the country supply its own population with an array of fruits and vegetables, but it exports billions of dollars worth of produce to nations around the world. So, how does a small country with little annual rainfall, with only one fresh water lake, and with no major rivers do this? It begins with a nothing-wasted attitude that extends from the government to private industry to farming to consumers. Israel charges its citizens the market price for water. No subsidies. You can have as much water as you want, but you have to pay for it. And when you pay for something, you tend to be more careful with how you use it. This also extends to the nation's infrastructure. In virtually every country, massive amounts of water are wasted every year in leaky pipes. Israel has developed technology that tells it when and where a pipe is leaking, so that it can be fixed immediately. This not only saves water, but it saves homeowners and industry money on their water bills. The biggest user of water in Israel and everywhere is agriculture. To get maximum use of its water, Israel developed the revolutionary farming technique known as drip irrigation -- the process of applying micro amounts of water to individual plants at their roots. This is much more water efficient than the traditional method, still widely used around the world, of flood irrigation -- flooding fields with water. Israeli scientists have also developed drought resistant crops that need less water to grow. Sewage is usually thought of as a nuisance, but in Israel it is now a highly valuable resource. Israel takes nearly all of its sewage, treats it to an ultra-pure level, and then reuses it in agriculture. No other country utilizes sewage as comprehensively as does Israel. Israel has also pioneered the use of desalination, turning seawater into drinking water. Once it was thought to be prohibitively expensive. No longer. Israel built five giant desalination plants along its Mediterranean coast that together provide the equivalent of 80% of the water piped into Israeli homes. Putting all of these practices and techniques together, Israel has grown into a water superpower, as well as a global center of water innovation. As the world grows drier and thirstier, those who want solutions will look to a little country in the middle of a desert for answers. Israel is ready with them. I'm Seth Siegel for Prager University.
I was raised a practicing Muslim and remained one for almost half my life. I attended madrassas, that is, Islamic schools, and memorized large parts of the Qur'an. As a child, I lived in Mecca for a time and frequently visited the Grand Mosque. As a teenager, I sympathized with the Muslim Brotherhood. At 22 while my family was living in Kenya, my father arranged my marriage to a member of our family clan, a man that I had never met. I ran away, made my way to Holland, studied there and eventually was elected a member of the Dutch parliament. Now I live in the United States. In short, I have seen Islam from the inside and the outside. I believe that a reform of Islam is necessary and possible. And only Muslims can make that reform a reality. But we in the West cannot remain on the sidelines as though the outcome of this struggle has nothing to do with us. If the jihadists win and the hope for a reformed Islam dies, the rest of the world will pay a terrible price. The terror attacks in New York, London, Madrid, Paris and many other places are only a preview for what is to come. For this reason, I believe that it's foolish to insist, as Western leaders habitually do, that the violent acts committed in the name of Islam can somehow be divorced from the religion itself. For more than a decade, my message has been simple: Islam is not a religion of peace. When I assert this, I do not mean that Islamic belief makes all Muslims violent. This is manifestly not the case: There are many millions of peaceful Muslims in the world. What I do say is that the call to violence and the justification for it are explicitly stated in the sacred texts of Islam. Moreover, this theologically sanctioned violence is there to be activated by any number of offenses, including but not limited to adultery, blasphemy, homosexuality and apostasy --that is to leave Islam. Those who tolerate this intolerance do so at their peril. As someone who has known what it is to live without freedom, I watch in amazement as those who call themselves liberals and progressives--people who claim to believe so fervently in individual liberty and minority rights--make common cause with the forces in the world that manifestly pose the greatest threats to that very freedom and those very minorities. In 2014 I was invited to accept an honorary degree from Brandeis University for the work I have done on behalf of women's rights in the Muslim world. That invitation was withdrawn after professors and students protested my criticism of Islam. My subsequent "disinvitation," as it came to be called, was no favor to Muslims --just the opposite. By labeling critical examination of Islam as inherently "racist," we make the chances of reformation far less likely. There are no limits on criticism of Christianity at American universities or anywhere else, for that matter; why should there be of Islam? Instead of contorting Western intellectual traditions so as not to offend our Muslim fellow citizens, we need to defend both those traditions and the Muslim dissidents who take great risks to promote them. We should support these brave men and women in every way possible. Imagine a platform for Muslim dissidents that communicated their message through YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. These are the Muslims we should be supporting--for our sake as much for the sake of Islam. In the Cold War, the West celebrated dissidents such as Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Andrei Sakharov, and Vclav Havel, who had the courage to challenge the Soviet system from within. Today, there are many dissidents who challenge Islam, but the West either ignores them or dismisses them as "not representative." This is a grave mistake. Reformers such as Tawfiq Hamid, Asra Nomani & Zuhdi Jasser and many others must be supported and protected. They should be as well known as Solzhenitsyn, Sakharov, and Havel were in the 1980s. If we do in fact support political, social and religious freedom, then we cannot in good conscience give Islam a free pass on the grounds of multicultural sensitivity. We need to say to Muslims living in the West: If you want to live in our societies, to share in their material benefits, then you need to accept that our freedoms are not optional. Islam is at a cross roads of reformation or self-destruction. But so is the West. I'm Ayaan Hirsi Ali of Harvard University for Prager University.
College can be pretty great whether it's the football games, learning about business, history, marine biology, or thousands of other topics or pizza at four o'clock in the morning. But why has college gotten so expensive? In 1980, a year of college cost $3,400. Today, the average cost is more than $23,000. What's going on? A great deal of blame lies with the government. You see, government tries to help students by providing loans and financial aid. That is a great intention but when government helps pay for things, people tend to forget how much these things cost in the first place things like college tuition. Whether it's from the students or the government, colleges get their money. And when the schools know that students have more money to spend (even if it's the government's money), they can raise the cost of admission. Think about that college town pizza place. If the government provided subsidies to buy $5 pizzas, we would all cheer right? And we'd want to buy more pizza for a short time, yes. But before long, the higher demand fueled by these artificially low prices would encourage the pizza place owner to charge more for pizza knowing that many people were getting government pizza assistance. And this says nothing of the taxpayers stuck paying for the pizza subsidies. So the next time people complain about the high cost of college explain how government policy that tries to help students afford college now actually hurts future students down the road.
Liberal or conservative, male or female, young or old, Americans love to bash the news media. Once among the nation's most trusted institutions, the news media have fallen from grace. According to Gallup, even as recently as 2000 a majority of Americans trusted the press; by 2015 it had fallen to 40%; and lower than that, 36%, among those 18 to 49. It's hard to see how this decline will be reversed. The industry has become politically polarized and, in the highly competitive age of multiple 24-hour cable news channels and the Internet, it's under severe financial pressure. And this compounds an even deeper problem failing journalistic standards. In the 1950s, the media universe consisted mainly of a few national television broadcast networks, and local TV and radio stations, most of which got much of their news from major wire services and the nation's large newspapers. Most journalists were committed to producing objective journalism fact-based stories independent of the government and of political parties. A reporter's job was to report, not offer opinion or advocate. Presented with the facts, it was up to readers to make their own judgments about news events. Opinions were supposed to be confined to editorial and op-ed pages. That world no longer exists. This lack of objectivity and decline of standards is one reason, though not the only one, why newspapers and news magazines are a declining industry. According to Pew Research, print revenue from newspaper sales has declined from $47 billion in 2006 to $16 billion in 2014. Digital sales haven't come close to making up the difference. Most papers have been forced to cut operating expenses: slash staff and close bureaus overseas, in particular. Ironically, there are more stories than ever to cover and fewer staff than ever to cover them. This lack of information from professional journalists has been filled by a new source social media and the blogosphere. When the Iraq war, which I covered for the New York Times, began in 2003, there were roughly one hundred thousand bloggers. Only a few years later, there were an estimated twenty-seven million. The Internet as a news source has obvious pluses and minuses. On the plus side is that information is spread widely and instantly. The minuses have to do with the fact that the quality of reporting varies dramatically. It's not easy to separate the wheat from the chaff. Furthermore, many sites, including mainstream sites, have abandoned traditional journalistic practices and standards in search of more and more eyeballs. Objectivity, once the gold standard of reporting, is now often seen as old-fashioned, a ratings loser. When success is measured mainly in terms of clicks, the outrageous beats the sober just about every time. Inserting opinion, even in the middle of a news story, is a way in which journalists can distinguish themselves. And in mainstream media outlets, those opinions overwhelmingly tend to be liberal. This might not be so bad if journalists acknowledged their bias. But they almost never do. Yet the bias is obvious. According to a 2014 study by two Indiana University professors, reporters who identify as Democrats outnumber those who identify as Republican by 4 to 1, 28% to 7%. The remaining 65% call themselves independent. But based on my long experience as a reporter, this is a fiction; that is, many reporters like to describe themselves as independent, but they're not not really. By any fair measure this group is overwhelming on the political Left. The obvious liberal bias has only served to push conservative readers to those sources that cater to conservative themes further polarizing the media landscape. And, unable to attract conservatives, the mainstream media have chosen to double down on views and themes that appeal to their liberal constituency. To give just one example, when Fox News broke a story in January 2016 about the discovery of top secret intelligence on the private email server that Hillary Clinton used while secretary of state classified information which she had denied ever having sent or received the New York Times buried this news story deep inside the paper. A decline in reporting standards, a decline in revenue and increase in bias have made many wary of the people who provide them with their news. A certain amount of skepticism is a healthy thing, but a thriving democracy depends on a dynamic and free press. As much as people may like to bash the media, most people would far prefer to trust it. I'm Judith Miller, contributing editor of City Journal for Prager University.
Tax the rich some more. That recommendation comes from many politicians. It seems obvious to tax the rich. We tell ourselves they won't miss that little extra bit we take. And after all, it's only right that they pay their fair share. The technical name for taxing the rich more is progressivity. And it's hard to oppose a concept that shares its roots with an optimistic word like progress. But this surface logic obscures some important truths about progressivity. So let's stand back. The first thing we see when we take our distance is surprising. It is that many people don't know what progressivity is. Suppose you pay five dollars in tax on your income. A rich man pays ten dollars, because he makes twice as much as you. This arrangement sounds like progress, right? But that is not a progressive tax schedule. It is a proportional one - a true fair share. What was once known as the tithe, but is now commonly called now a flat tax. Under a flat tax, everyone pays the same rate no matter what they earn. In the 1980's a poll by political scientist Karlyn Keene suggested that Americans thought flat proportional taxes were fair taxes. And as we know from architecture and art, humans are wired to like proportionality. A progressive tax structure by contrast is actually disproportionate. Progressivity resembles a flight of stairs. Each individual starts out at the bottom, paying the same rate, say 10 percent. When his income rises to a certain line, the taxpayer moves up a step on the staircase and his rate goes up to, say 20 percent, but only for the share of income past that line. At the next step, the rate goes up again, say to 30 percent, but again only for the last stair of income. And so on. But the prospect of going up all those stairs tires the climber. Surveying the rates at the top, workers stop chasing a promotion they once thought they wanted. Why bother? The taxman will take the money anyhow. When workers or professionals stall on the stairs, the government loses money, but so do regular people. For when the person who decides not to earn more money is a business owner, the result of that decision is a smaller company and fewer jobs for others. Of course some people do keep climbing, no matter what. Some people are wired that way. And those taxpayers can get to the point where they pay half of what they earn - especially in high tax states - which leads to the greatest argument against the progressivity staircase: Progressivity is unjust. People have a right to what they earn - even Californians and New Yorkers. But politicians like being able to say that they are ensuring that the rich pay their share. And nothing proves their anti-rich credentials like sponsoring fresh legislation for more progressivity. So for years, President after President, Democrat and Republican, and Congress after Congress have passed law after law to make the income tax more progressive. President Richard Nixon signed a law that took nine million taxpayers at the bottom end off the income tax staircase entirely. Other presidents like Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton took a few more million out. George W. Bush removed even more. So today nearly half of Americans pay no income tax at all. And 10 percent of earners pay over 70 percent of all income tax. Talk about disproportionate. Here we get to a genuine question of fairness. There's something wrong with our democracy when people who pay no tax can vote for tax increases on fellow citizens who already do pay tax. But reversing a century of progressivity won't be easy. For when you cut taxes for all in a progressive rate structure, the rich necessarily get a larger tax break. That is so because they pay a greater share to begin with, and advocating larger breaks for the rich is not a popular political move, to put it mildly. Many economists make the case for a true flat tax. Others tout a sales tax. Consumers would then pay taxes only on what they buy. Either way, it's time for politicians to give up their small talk about the earned income credit, the child credit, and so on, and get out their saws to dismantle the big staircase - our disproportionate income tax. The country could then try a tax code that's simple and easy to navigate, like a new road that runs straight ahead into the horizon. Many of us would call that progress. I'm Amity Shlaes for Prager University.
What do you call it when people have a great idea and risk everything they have -- time, money, energy -- to make that idea a reality? I call it the American Dream. Ritu Shah-Burnham had an idea. She dreamed of opening a pizza franchise in Seattle, Washington. It wasn't easy it never is but she made it happen. Richard Clark had an idea. Office buildings in fast growing Northern Florida needed janitorial services. He was bound and determined to see that they got it. He grew his business to over 200 employees. Kenneth Jarosch oversees a bakery in Chicago started in 1959 by his father and grandfather. The neighborhood has seen a lot of changes over the decades, but there's always been one thing you could count on: delicious bread and pastries fresh from the Jarosch ovens. Ritu's, Richard's, and Kenneth's stories are played out every day across America: a million variations on the same theme -- starting a business, running a business, keeping a business going. In fact, America leads the world in small business creation, with over 28 million small businesses. They generate over 64% of all new private sector jobs. And, let's not miss the obvious: Every big business with thousands of employees started out as a small business. Bernie Marcus opened two hardware stores in Georgia and Phil Knight sold running shoes out of the back of his car in Oregon. Thus were The Home Depot and Nike born. Given the importance of small businesses to the American economy, you would think the government on all levels -- city, state and federal -- would do everything it could to encourage their formation and growth. In other words, you'd think the government's attitude would be, How can we help you? But, sadly, this is not the case. In fact, it's the opposite. The government is killing small businesses -- killing them with excessive taxes, over-regulation and complicated compliance. One such burden is the push to hike federal, state and city minimum wage rates from about $7.25 an hour to as much as $15. Ritu Shah-Burnham found this out the hard way. So did her employees. When the city of Seattle raised their minimum wage to $15 an hour, all the profit went out of Ritu's pizza parlor. She couldn't raise prices high enough to cover her new costs. She lost her business and her employees lost their jobs. Instead of their wages going up to $15, they went down to zero. Then there's the Affordable Care Act, which requires businesses with at least 50 full-time employees to provide health insurance for all of them. The law's definition of full-time? Just 30 hours a week. To survive all the added costs, many small companies have reduced their workers' hours to below 30 per week. They've also become wary of expanding beyond 50 full time employees. That's the dilemma Richard Clark faced. His workforce of 200 people, 50% of whom were full-time, is now down to 150 people with only 20% full-time. The rest are part time. Sure, it would be great to provide everyone with health insurance, but Richard wouldn't be able to keep his business if he did, and, obviously, his employees wouldn't have jobs. Kenneth Jarosch wonders if his bakery can survive the bans on partially hydrogenated oil and transfats, key ingredients in making his baked goods. He'll have to reformulate his recipes. That will cost him a lot of time and money, and he worries about the taste and texture of his baked goods. If you're a bakery and your customers don't like your bread, well . . . you're toast. And so are your employees. There are over 175,000 pages of regulations like these from the federal government alone - countless more from cities and states. Small businesses have to deal with them every day. Some of these regulations are necessary, but many are not. Some sound good on the campaign trail, but create serious practical problems in real life. They sap the resources of going concerns and discourage people from starting new ones. They're freezing American economic growth. They're like a giant iceberg. And the American dream is headed straight for it. I'm Elaine Parker of the Job Creators Network, for Prager University.
What are the five biggest issues facing blacks in America? Here's my list. Problem #5. The Victim Mentality Nothing holds someone back more than seeing himself as a victim. Why? Because a victim is not responsible for his situation. Everything is someone else's fault. And the victim sees little chance of improving his life. How can he get ahead if someone is holding him back? All this makes the victim unhappy, frustrated and angry. This is how too many blacks see themselves as victims. So much so that their victim status becomes their primary identity and their ruling ideology. I call it victimology. Unfortunately, many black churches preach this victimology, many black parents pass it on to their children, inner-city schools teach it to their students and the black media reinforce it. Meanwhile, the NAACP and other black grievance groups fundraise on it. Problem #4. Lack of Diversity Blacks repeatedly demand an honest dialogue or debate about race. But how can there ever be an honest dialogue about race between blacks and whites when there is virtually no honest dialogue between blacks and blacks? It's hypocritical. And if a black doesn't think, whites are ultimately responsible for black people's problems, they're labeled a sell-out, Uncle Tom, or race-traitor. As long as this type of groupthink exists, race-reverends of the Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson type will continue to be celebrated while independent black thinkers such as Professors Thomas Sowell and Walter Williams will be shunned. The honest race dialogue and debate -- that first has to happen -- is not between blacks and whites but between blacks and blacks. We demand diversity from others, but need to practice it ourselves where it really matters -- in thought, opinion, and even political affiliation. Problem #3. Urban Terrorism As just about everyone knows, but too few talk about publicly, in majority black cities, violent black on black crime is rampant. A Department of Justice study from 1980-2008 revealed that blacks accounted for almost half of the nation's homicide victims (47.4%) and more than half of the offenders (52.4%) all while only being 13% of America's population. The Tuskegee Institute conducted a study of all known lynchings of blacks that occurred between 1882-1968. During this 86-year span, which is essentially the post-Civil War era up to the Civil Rights era, 3,446 Blacks where reportedly lynched. Presently, black-on-black murder eclipses the number of blacks lynched over the course of 80 years roughly every six months. Unbelievably, the culpability for this disproportionate amount of mayhem actually lies with a menacing 2-3% minority within the black populace. I call them urban terrorists. And since they're literally spawned from problem #2, the black community protects them. Problem #2. Proliferation of Baby Mamas The disintegration of the nuclear family has led to an astronomical increase of single-mother households. According to the Moynihan Report, in 1965, nearly 25 percent of black children were born to unwed mothers. The report's author Daniel Patrick Moynihan said this was a disaster in the making. He was, of course, vilified by so-called black leaders and their progressive allies. But he was right. Today the out of wedlock birth rate is nearly 75 percent. and even higher in some urban areas. To be clear, Baby Daddies share this responsibility with Baby Mamas. Yet, while Baby Daddies are blamed and rarely shown compassion, Baby Mamas are rarely blamed and receive both compassion and support. This lopsided dynamic and the previously listed pathologies stem directly from the number one problem facing the black community... Problem #1. Unquestioning Allegiance to so-called Progressive Policies Unwavering loyalty to progressive, liberal policies is the primary reason these dire conditions persist. It both makes them possible and perpetuates them. It's no coincidence that progressivism is the common thread that binds predominately black cities where single-parent homes, failing schools, rampant poverty and crime predominate. Look at cities like Detroit, Philadelphia and Baltimore. They've been run by progressive Democrats for decades. If their liberal policies were at all effective, these cities should have become models of economic growth and prosperity. Instead, they're models of dysfunction. By fostering and exploiting the victim mentality, discouraging self-examination, subsidizing baby-mamas, and making excuses for black thugs, so-called progressive policies don't alleviate the problems that afflict the black community, they aggravate those problems. You may have noticed that racism did not make the list. Why not? It's simple: There will be no solution to the problems afflicting black America until more blacks recognize that the issues plaguing our community are ultimately self-inflicted. Does racism exist? Sure. But there are other problems far more serious. And waiting until there are no more racists will mean waiting, and making excuses, forever. I'm Taleeb Starkes for Prager University.
When you turn on the lights in your house or plug in your smartphone charger or even charge your electric car, do you know where your power is coming from? Electricity is something we don't think about very often until we don't have it or the cost of it goes way up. In the United States, there are a number of different sources of energy. The biggest sources of energy are fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. Together, they account for two-thirds of the electricity we use. Nuclear power, which is the third biggest source, accounts for 20%. And at the smaller end of the scale hydropower, which comes from things like the Hoover Dam, is responsible for 7% of power generation. Wind power accounts for 4% and solar power for less than 1%. We don't just use electricity at home. Businesses and factories all use electricity to make goods and provide services. When they have cheap electricity, it results in lower costs on products we buy and that boost can help create more jobs. Depending on what part of the country you live in, the mix of energy sources can look very different. If you live in the midwest, you likely get more than 65% of your electricity from coal. If you live in the northwest, the biggest source of electricity is hydropower. And if you live in the northeast, you get the bulk of your electricity from natural gas and nuclear. So when you hear that people want to raise the cost of using fossils fuels to make electricity and force people to switch to even more expensive options like wind and solar, realize that it will have a very real effect on your pocketbook and the economy. And if the switch to renewables is too fast, we could even get to the point where the costs could skyrocket. Or there isn't enough power to go around.
What were the religious beliefs of the Founding Fathers of the United States? There's been a lot of controversy surrounding this subject. But there shouldn't be. Because of their prominence, I will discuss George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin -- our nation's first three Presidents, and the man referred to as the First American -- all of whom, even if some did not individually adhere to orthodox Christianity, were steeped in the Judeo-Christian tradition. Here's what we can say for certain about their religious beliefs. 1) All of the Founders believed in a transcendent God, that is, a Creator who exists outside of nature. 2) All the Founders believed in a God who imposes moral obligations on human beings 3) All the Founders believed in a God who punishes bad behavior and rewards good behavior in an afterlife. The notion that any of the Founders believed in an impersonal deity who merely created the universe and then left it to itself is false. All of them believed in a God who, as Franklin said at the Constitutional Convention, governs in the affairs of men. Let's start with George Washington. Washington's writings, both public and private, are full of references to the Bible. This is certainly true during his eight years as the first President of the United States. Here is Washington at his first Inaugural: The propitious smiles of Heaven can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and right, which Heaven itself has ordained. In all likelihood, Washington was an orthodox Christian. Like Washington, Benjamin Franklin also referenced Bible verses, stories, and metaphors throughout his life. His calls for prayer at the Constitutional Convention were typical of his attitude. Franklin, who had his own unorthodox views, summed up his faith this way: That the soul of man is immortal, and will be treated with justice in another life respecting its conduct in this. While the religious views of Washington and Franklin are clear, those of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson are more complicated. Adams referred to himself as a Christian throughout his life, but did not believe in traditional Christian doctrines such as the trinity or the divinity of Jesus. Nonetheless, before, during and after his tenure as President, Adams repeatedly asserted his admiration for the Christian faith: those general Principles of Christianity are as eternal and immutable as the Existence and Attributes of God, he wrote. Likewise, Adams spoke of his great respect for the Bible. The Bible is the best book in the world. It contains more of my philosophy than all the libraries I have seen Those who suggest that Adams was against religion like to quote from a letter he wrote to Thomas Jefferson in which he said, This would be the best of all possible worlds if there was no religion in it. Unfortunately, those who cite this line never quote the lines that immediately follow But in this exclamation, I should have been as fanatical as [the skeptics of religion]. Without religion, this world would be something not fit to be mentioned in polite company - I mean hell. So, those who quote the first line without quoting the subsequent lines are either unaware of the full comment or are deliberately misleading people as to Adams's beliefs. Like Adams, Thomas Jefferson did not adhere to orthodox doctrine. Yet he often declared himself to be a Christian. "I am a Christian," he said, in the only sense he [Jesus] wished anyone to be: sincerely attached to his doctrines... As one of the leaders of the American Revolution, his views are well known. After all, this is the man who wrote in the Declaration of Independence that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. You can't get a much more explicit statement of belief than that. These four founders Washington, Adams, Jefferson and Franklin were practical men with a sober view of human nature. They understood that man is morally weak and that religion provides the best encouragement and incentive to be good. It does so, first and foremost, by teaching that choices have consequences. Not necessarily in the here and now, but most certainly in the hereafter meted out by a just God. It should come as no surprise, then, that Jefferson, in his second inaugural, asked for, The favor of that Being in whose hands we are, who led our forefathers, as Israel of old, from their native land. So what were the religious beliefs of the Founders? They were diverse. But all of them were rooted in the Judeo-Christian values found in the Bible. I'm Joshua Charles, writer and researcher at the Museum of the Bible, for Prager University.
There has been a lot said and a lot written about income inequality about how unfair it is that a few people are very rich and the rest of us aren't; that the income gap between the wealthy and even the middle-class, let alone the poor, is so large. There's only one problem with this complaint. It's wrong. Income inequality is actually a good thing -- when it is the product of a free market economy. And your own life proves it! An economy is made up of millions of individuals making decisions about their own lives where and how much they want to work, what they want to buy, and so on. You are one of those individuals. In a country like the United States, you are free to pursue a path in life that you believe best suits your talents. That talent might be teaching, or making music, or banking, or starting a small business, or raising a family. Whatever it is, this freedom helps to make life enjoyable, exciting and meaningful. But it's also an expression of inequality. This is simply because we're all different. We have different talents, different temperaments, different ambitions. That's okay because again in a free society we can seek out opportunities that play to our personal strengths; that distinguish us from others. If you find what you're really good at and work hard, you might have great success and make a lot of money. If you're an outstanding athlete, I'll buy a ticket to see you play. If you're a savvy investor, I'll give you some of my money to invest. As long as you have the freedom to guide your own destiny, you have a chance to reach your full potential achieving success, however you define it. But if someone, say, a government bureaucrat, told you that your ambition had limits, that there was a ceiling above which you could not rise, I doubt you'd be happy about it. You'd feel like you were in a straightjacket. Forced equality means less opportunity to pursue what makes you individually great.. But what about the growing gap between the rich, the 1%, and the rest of us, the 99%, that one hears so much about? Isn't that a bad thing? Again, the answer is no. Here's why: In a free market economy people become wealthy making what the rich enjoy today into something almost everybody can enjoy tomorrow. The rich are the test buyers. Consider the cell phone. Now we all have them, but when Motorola manufactured the first one in 1983 it was the size of a brick, had a half-hour of battery life, reception was terrible, and calls were very expensive. It cost $4000. But if no one had bought that $4000 brick, there wouldn't be a $40 cell phone today. In the 1960's a computer cost over a million dollars. Nowadays, thanks to billionaires like Michael Dell, we have incredibly advanced computers that cost us a few hundred dollars. Remember what an out-of-reach luxury flat screen TV's once were? Only the rich could afford them. Today your living room is essentially your own private cinema. The free market is about turning scarcity into abundance. What was once available to the few is now available to the many. Wealth inequality is an important corollary to that truth. So, should I resent the people who became wealthy because they have more money than I do, or should I be grateful for the economic system that allows them to enrich my life and the lives of millions of other people? This feature of the free market income inequality can appear terribly unfair. But with a little further investigation, the real picture becomes clear. Income inequality makes what once seemed like impossible luxuries available to almost everyone; it provides the incentive for creative people to gamble on new ideas; it promotes personal freedom, and rewards hard work, talent, and achievement. In sum, income inequality signals that individual liberty, opportunity, and innovation are all present in a free economy. Pretty good for something that's supposed to be so bad. Two final points: The 1% Club is always open to new members. And you don't have to be in the top one percent to have a very good life. And that, not the existence of the very wealthy, is what matters most. I'm John Tamny, editor of Real Clear Markets, for Prager University.
When you hear that the unemployment rate has gone down, you usually think that the economy is doing better. Right? But the numbers don't always tell the full story. This is what's not said. If someone has gotten so frustrated that they've stopped looking for work or just decided that they won't work anymore, they no longer get counted as unemployed. So, imagine you had a town with 100 people, and 10 of them were unemployed and trying to find jobs. The unemployment rate would be 10%. Make sense? So now imagine if five of those people got tired of looking for jobs and decided to move into their parent's basement the government would now say that the unemployment rate has gone down to 5%. Yippee! Wait nowthat doesn't make sense. The people in the basement are no longer part of the labor force because they've given up so the labor force participation rate goes down too Not exactly a reason to celebrate. So while the unemployment rate is important, the labor force participation rate, which as you can see, tells the real story. Now that makes sense. Remember this the next time you see a politician on the news say the unemployment rate getting better.
If every high school principal gave the following speech, America would be a much better place. To the students and faculty of our high school: I am your new principal, and honored to be so. There is no greater calling than to teach young people. I would like to apprise you of some important changes coming to our school. First, this school will no longer honor race or ethnicity. I could not care less if you are black, brown, red, yellow or white. I could not care less if your origins are African, European, Latin American or Asian, or if your ancestors arrived here on the Mayflower or on slave ships. The only identity this school will recognize is your individual identity - your character, your scholarship, your humanity. And the only national identity this school will recognize is American. This is an American public school, and American public schools were created to make better Americans. If you wish to affirm here an ethnic or racial identity - or a national identity other than American - you will have to attend another school. This includes after-school clubs. I will not authorize clubs that divide students based on identities such as race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or whatever else may become in vogue in our society. Those clubs cultivate narcissism - an unhealthy preoccupation with the self - while the purpose of education is to get you to think beyond yourself. This school's clubs will be based on interests and passions - clubs that transport you to the wonders and glories of art, music, astronomy, languages you do not already speak, and more. If the only extracurricular activities you can imagine being interested in are those based on ethnicity, race or sexual identity, that means that little outside of yourself really interests you. Second, I do not care whether English is your native language. My only interest in terms of language is that you leave this school speaking and writing English as fluently as possible. The English language has united America's citizens for over 200 years, and it will unite us at this school. Furthermore, I would be remiss in my duty to ensure that you will be prepared to successfully compete in the job market, if you leave this school without excellent English-language skills. We will learn other languages here - it's deplorable that most Americans only speak English - but if you want classes taught in your native language rather than in English, this is not the right school for you. Third, because I regard learning as a sacred endeavor, everything in this school will reflect learning's elevated status. This means, among other things, that you and your teachers will dress accordingly. There will be a dress code at this school. And you will address all teachers by their title, not by their first name. They are your teachers, not your pals. Fourth, no obscene language will be tolerated anywhere on this school's property. By obscene language, I mean the words banned on radio and television, plus epithets such as the b-word, even when addressed by one girl to another, or the n-word, even when used by one black student to another. It is my intent that by the time you leave this school, you will be among the few your age to distinguish between the elevated and the degraded, the holy and the obscene. Fifth, we will end all self-esteem programs. In this school, self-esteem will be attained in only one way - the only way self-esteem can be attained - by earning it. One immediate consequence is that graduating classes will have one valedictorian, not eight. Sixth, and last, I am reorienting the school toward academics and away from politics and propaganda. No more time will be devoted to racism, sexism, Islamophobia, homophobia, global warming, tobacco, or gender identity. No more classes will be devoted to condom-wearing and teaching you to regard sexual relations as no more than a health issue. And there will be no more attempts to convince you that you are a victim because you are not white or male or heterosexual or Christian. This school will have failed if any of you graduate without considering him or herself inordinately lucky - lucky to be alive and lucky to be an American. Now, please stand and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of our country. As many of you do not know the words, your teachers will hand them out to you. I'm Dennis Prager.
As a professor at a major American university, I'm well aware of higher education's liberal bias. I also know the unique challenges that college students with conservative views face. If you are one of those students, here are seven ways you can turn those challenges into opportunities for learning and growth. 1) Face Reality The reality is that at most colleges and universities the Leftist worldview is the norm. Everything else is considered a deviation. This is certainly the case in the humanities and social sciences. Even the hard sciences and professional majors, like business, have been influenced -- although, thus far at least, to a much lesser degree. Simply being aware of this ideological imbalance is a big step forward. It will help you think critically about what you're being taught. 2) Seek Out Allies The easiest way to do this is to identify the non-Left and conservative groups and clubs on campus and to join some of them. We all need allies. And we all need friends with whom we can talk freely. Plus, fellow independent-thinking students can give you advice on how to navigate the Politically Correct obstacle course that runs through almost all college campuses -- and where to find the few non-Leftist faculty. (They do exist!) 3) Avoid pointless ideological battles It's not your personal responsibility to correct the Leftist bias that permeates higher education. You're not going to turn around the professor who has no patience for your conservative views, so don't try. It's fine to pose probing questions, but don't push too hard. The same goes for your fellow students who espouse Leftist views -- probe, but don't push too hard. Also, recognize that many left-leaning faculty are committed to an open discussion of controversial topics. Conflicts with closed-minded professors will happen less often than you might imagine. 4) Stay cool If you do mix it up with a Leftist professor or fellow student always be calm, reasonable, and respectful, even if they don't return the favor. Think of yourself as an ambassador for conservative ideas. Coming off as a hothead isn't going to help the cause. It's not easy to control your temper, especially when you are being falsely accused of being sexist, intolerant, xenophobic, bigoted or racist, but that's what you have to do. Your opponents will look for any excuse to dismiss you as a crazy conservative. So don't give them the chance. Remember this: the person who loses his cool often loses the debate. 5) Choose wisely Consider a major that isn't inherently hostile to conservative ideas. The hard sciences like physics and chemistry are much less likely to be politicized in part, because the material is less subjective. In the social sciences, Political Science and Economics tend to be more tolerant of conservative ideas, if only because a proportionally large minority of the faculty hold views that are centrist or right of center. For example, in the years I've taught at Penn State University in Harrisburg, the Political Science faculty have been, without exception, committed to teaching politics and policy impartially. On the other hand, Gender studies, Ethnic studies, and pretty much anything with the word studies after it, tend to be more ideological. I would suggest steering clear of these courses your freshman year. Wait until you have a little more experience and confidence before taking on these subjects. 6) Know your rights If your instructor or even the administration targets you because of your beliefs, you have options. Organizations like the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) who fight for freedom of speech, religious liberty, and due process on college campuses can help you. You may be in an ideological minority, but you're not alone. 7) Work hard College faculty value hardworking, enthusiastic students. Period. The easiest way to win over your Leftist professor is to do your class work in a conscientious manner. That's your way of showing respect. Many teachers will respect you in turn. If you read the assigned materials, take part in class discussion, and show that you understand the key concepts, chances are you'll do just fine. As I noted in a previous Prager University course, How the Liberal University Hurts the Liberal Student, I believe that conservative students stand to get more out their college experience than their liberal counterparts. Why? Because conservative students are constantly exposed to dissenting viewpoints. This opposition sharpens them intellectually and helps them grow. The secret is to be prepared. Follow these seven rules and you will be. I'm Matthew Woessner, Associate Professor of Political Science at Penn State Harrisburg for Prager University.
Does the truth matter? Not to groups like Black Lives Matter. That's tragic for many reasons, not the least of which is that black lives are being lost as a result. When it comes to the subject of American police, blacks, and the deadly use of force, here is what we know: A recent deadly force study by Washington State University researcher Lois James found that police officers were LESS likely to shoot unarmed black suspects than unarmed white or Hispanic ones in simulated threat scenarios. Harvard economics professor Roland Fryer analyzed more than 1,000 officer-involved shootings across the country. He concluded that there is ZERO evidence of racial bias in police shootings. In Houston, he found that blacks were 24% LESS likely than whites to be shot by officers even though the suspects were armed or violent. Does the truth matter? An analysis of the Washington Post's Police Shooting Database and of Federal Crime Statistics reveals that fully twelve percent of all whites and Hispanics who die of homicide are killed by cops. By contrast, only four percent of black homicide victims are killed by cops. But isn't it a sign of bias that blacks make up 26% of police-shooting victims, but only 13% of the national population? It is not, and common sense suggests why. Police shootings occur more frequently where officers confront armed or violently resisting suspects. Those suspects are disproportionately black. According to the most recent study by the Department of Justice, although blacks were only about 15% of the population in the 75 largest counties in the US, they were charged with 62% of all robberies, 57% of murders and 45% of assaults. In New York City, blacks commit over three-quarters of all shootings, though they are only 23% of the city's population. Whites, by contrast, commit under 2% of all shootings in the city, though they are 34% of the population. New York's crime disparities are repeated in virtually every racially diverse city in America. The real problem facing inner-city black communities today is not the police but criminals. In 2014, over 6,000 blacks were murdered, more than all white and Hispanic homicide victims combined. Who is killing them? Not the police, and not white civilians, but other blacks. In fact, a police officer is eighteen and a half times more likely to be killed by a black male than an unarmed black male is to be killed by a police officer. If the police ended all use of lethal force tomorrow, it would have a negligible impact on the black death-by-homicide rate. In Chicago, through just the first six-and-a-half months of 2016, over 2,300 people were shot. That's a shooting an hour during some weekends. The vast majority of the victims were black. During this same period, the Chicago police shot 12 people, all armed and dangerous. That's one half of one percent of all shootings. Does the truth matter? If it does, here's a truth worth pondering: There is no government agency more dedicated to the proposition that black lives matter than the police. The proactive policing revolution that began in the mid-1990s has dramatically brought down the inner-city murder rate and saved tens of thousands of black lives. Unfortunately, that crime decline is now in jeopardy. As I write in my book, The War on Cops, police officers are backing off of proactive policing in black neighborhoods thanks to the false narrative that police officers are infected with homicidal bias. As a result, violent crime is going up, in cities with large black populations, homicides in 2015 rose anywhere from 54% in Washington DC to 90% in Cleveland. Overall, in the nation's 56 largest cities, homicides in 2015 rose 17%, a nearly unprecedented one-year spike. Many law-abiding residents of high-crime areas beg the police to maintain order - precisely the type of policing that the ACLU, progressive politicians, and the Obama Justice Department denounce as racist. This is tragic because when the police refrain from proactive policing, black lives are lost. Lost because of a myth. The best research and data reach this conclusion: there is no evidence that police are killing blacks just because they are black. You now have the truth. Does it matter? I'm Heather MacDonald of the Manhattan Institute for Prager University.
This is Kelly. She's a hard-working, independent college student. To pay for school, she works between 35 and 39 hours a week at her local grocery store. But today's been rough for Kelly. She has just been told that she's now part of a new group of Americans: the 29ers Let me explain. Starting in 2015, the Affordable Care Act requires many companies to offer health insurance to employees who work 30 hours or more a week. As you may have guessed, the grocery store Kelly works for is one of these companies. The owners of her grocery store and companies like it would like to supply health insurance for all of their employees. Unfortunately, this isn't an expense that many companies can afford and still stay in business without big price increases to consumers. So now Kelly and hundreds of thousands of part-time employees' hours are now capped at 29 hours per week, which means Kelly will have to find another part-time job to make up for the lost hours. The law is flawed resulting in people having less money and still no health insurance. Sometimes government policies sound good, but have unintended consequences.
I grew up in the former Soviet Union. My parents and I lived in a communal apartment with nine other families. When my parents wanted to be romantic they would send me to look out the window. One day my dad said, So what did you see out the window? I said, Our neighbors being romantic. He said, How could you tell? I said, Because their son is looking at me. My parents laughed. At that moment, I felt that I was in the presence of love. As a child, I made the discovery that laughter must be the way people communicate to one another that they're happy. Did you know that there has been actual research into the relationship between laughter and happy marriages? For over four decades, Dr. John Gottman, Professor of Psychology at the University of Washington, has studied thousands of couples in both successful relationships and not-so-successful ones. Couples who laugh together, he concludes, last together. Here's how it works: we make each other happy first and then laughter reassures us that we are on the right track. The fading away of laughter may be the best way to tell if your relationship has gone off course. So here is what I want you to start doing: listen for laughter in your relationship. And not just any laughter listen for moments when you share laughter together. If that isn't happening just about every day, it is time to do something about it. Let me give you an example from my own life. One night, I was putting my son Alexander to bed. He was cranky and crying. My wife said to me, I'll show you how to put the baby to sleep. She took Alexander from me and put him in the bassinet and put the bassinet on top of the dryer. Two minutes later he was sound asleep. I said Oh great. All other kids are going to go to daycare center. I'll have to drop him off at the laundromat. Oh, that bundle? Yeah, that one is mine. My wife did not laugh. As a comedian, I should have caught that. In my show, if a joke doesn't get a laugh, I analyze what went wrong. Perhaps change the set-up, or a punch line to get the laughter back. I use laughter as a gauge of the happiness of my audience. At that time, I did not understand that it could be applied to my personal life as well. If I had understood that laughter was a gauge of happiness, I might have saved my marriage. As I started to research the science of happiness, I learned that when there is a genuine connection between people, laughter is the first thing that happens as a confirmation of a happy relationship. The intimacy comes next and then people get married and live together. When things are not working, laughter is the first thing to go. Second thing to go is intimacy. Third thing is your house. Of course, marriages and relationships break up for all sorts of reasons. But, I can say with confidence, if you're not laughing, there is trouble ahead. So, how do you get the laughter back if you've lost it? Every relationship is different, of course, but there is one constant: To laugh together, you need to be together. And that literally means time together. You need to start by making a decision that time together is important and it's not negotiable. Set a date night, take a dance lesson, a cooking class. It doesn't matter what you do. You just have to do it. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, American couples sleep an average 7.2 hours a day, work 8.5 hours a day, and watch television 2.4 hours a day. Then they wanted to know how much time are we intimate with one another. They combined hugging, kissing, cuddling and lovemaking. It was one minute a day. So if you're doing it for 20 minutes, you're using somebody else's minutes And they don't roll over. I believe that if you understand the connection between happiness and laughter, you'll be way ahead of those statistics. You will have better or even best chance to have a long, lasting happy relationship. Just like the gas gauge in your car let's you know how much gas you have in your tank, laughter can let you know how much happiness you have in your relationship. The goal is to live happily ever laughter. And maybe make love more than one minute a day. I'm Yakov Smirnoff for Prager University.
Is our economy a machine, like an automobile, a train or a power plant? One constantly hears phrases such as the economy is overheating or needs to cool off or could use some stimulus. These aren't harmless metaphors. They epitomize how economists have taught us to see an economyas something that can be manipulated, guided or driven. And guess who does the driving? The government. The government is supposed to make sure that the economy hums along at an even speed, going neither too fast nor too slow. But the economy is not a machine. It is made up of people, and no one can control what billions of them are going to do. What gets overlooked, underplayed or simply ignored is the extraordinary churn in the activities of a free market. New businesses open while others close, constantly. In the U.S. during normal times a half-million or more jobs are created each week, while another half-million are cut. Entrepreneurs continually roll out new products and services, most of which flop. But those that succeed can greatly improve our quality of life. What government canand shoulddo is to positively influence the environment in which this hum of activity takes place through sensible taxation, monetary policy, government spending and regulation. And in almost all instances the best prescription for economic health is less is more. Catastrophic mistakes by governments can poison the marketplace, as happened during the Great Depression in the 1930s, to a lesser extent in the 1970s, and then again in the panic of 200809. The government's recent mistakes have been compounded by tax increases and an avalanche of antigrowth regulations from ObamaCare, the Dodd-Frank financial services bill and all those Washington regulatory agencies, such as the FCC, the EPA and the National Labor Relations Board. If you want to understand why the American economy has been growing at the anemic pace of 1 to 2 percent a year, look no further. Again, the idea of an economy that purrs along like a well-oiled machine hurts, not enhances, wealth creation because invariably, it leads to growth retarding government intervention. Which brings us to bubbles. Shouldn't the government, the argument goes, at least try to stop them from happening? Well, it depends. Those caused by misguided government policies like the housing bubble of the mid 2000's, yes. Those caused by the free market, no. Bubbles have a bad name, but not all of them are created equal. There are healthy ones and unhealthy ones. The good kind develops when a lot of people simultaneously recognize a great opportunity. Computers are an excellent example. During the early 1980s there was a boom in personal computersfollowed by a severe shakeout, when companies such as Atari and Commodore bit the dust. In the late 1990s a number of companies recognized the importance of search engines. Google emerged supreme with Microsoft and others relegated to fractional market shares. More recently mobile phones went through its own shakeout with a dozen different brands competing for market share. Once Nokia was king. But now the Apple iPhone and Samsung dominate. Good bubbles are a sign of a vibrant and innovative economy. The excesses are ultimately squeezed out, and capital is redeployed to more promising opportunities. But bubbles artificially created by government policiessuch as the housing bubble are disastrous. The housing crisis was largely created by government policies, including pushing banks into giving mortgages to people who could not really afford them. When large numbers of those borrowers stopped making their payments, the market crashed and everyone got hurt by unnecessary government meddling. Finally, there are business cycles. Shouldn't the government smooth those out? Economists have puzzled over business cyclesthe ups and downs of an economy for more than 200 years. Most have treated the phenomenon like an illness, something to be cured, instead of what it is: the ebb and flow of the free market, where what people might want is created and what people don't want is destroyed. Trying to arrest this free market process of creative destruction, as it is known, inevitably leads to stagnation, that is, little or no economic growth. For current examples see Japan and most of Europe. Here's a rule: the more a government tightens its grip, the less an economy grows. That's because an economy is not a machine and the government can't force it to act like one. So, let's free the free market. That is and always has been the surest path to prosperity. I'm Steve Forbes for Prager University.
When you have a job there are a lot of ways to get paid. You can punch a clock, work on commission, or have a salary. There are a lot of advantages to being a salaried worker. Salaried workers enjoy a steady income, full time benefits like health care and paid vacation, and more security in times of economic uncertainty. It's also usually one of the first steps to climbing the corporate ladder. When you're an hourly employee your wages rise and fall based on the hours you work. However, hourly workers are eligible for higher overtime pay for time worked above 40 hours in a single week. Now the US government is going to require that all salaried employees who make less than $47,500 a year be paid overtime for hours worked over 40 in a week. Sounds good right? Well for the employee that has gone the extra mile to finally get to a salaried position, there may be unintended consequences that end up costing the people it was designed to help. Consider the hypothetical case for Larry. Larry has worked for an auto parts distributor for several years, and was recently promoted from hourly to salary as a result of his hard work and going the extra mile. This new position allows him flexibility, provides additional job security, and consistent income. Because of the new overtime rule, his boss was forced to bump him down to hourly pay, and limit his hours to 40 per week. When sales aren't as strong Larry's hours get cut to 35 hours in order to save money. So while he is now eligible for overtime pay his income isn't guaranteed, and it's harder to go for that promotion. Larry can't blame his boss. When business owners get hit with an expensive regulation they usually have two choices: raise prices on their products, or try and cut labor costs. Because it punishes job creators, the overtime rule hurts those they serve including customers, workers, and job seekers. Government policies should encourage job creators to hire and retain employees, giving everyone a chance to pursue the American dream.
Here's what I was told during my freshman orientation at Haverford College: Ask for help when you need it. Speak up when you feel uncomfortable. Place your own well being above all other concerns. In short, the school was ready to protect me from any personal slights or hurt feelings I might suffer. What counted as a personal slight or similar offense was up to me to define. This surprised me. It surprised me because at McDonald's, where I worked before I started school, acting in this way would have probably cost me my job, a job I needed in order to go to college. The most important thing at McDonald's was not how I felt but how my customers felt. It was my job and the job of everyone working there to make others namely, the customers happy. I worked at the front counter. That meant that if there was a problem with an order, I had to deal with it. The issues weren't complicated. It was usually something like a missing piece of cheese from a McDouble, or whipped cream on a milkshake when they hadn't wanted any. Whatever it was, I had to listen patiently and mentally take notes so that I could report the relevant details to someone who could actually correct the problem. Oddly enough, customers were not interested in carefully crafting their complaints in such a way as to spare my feelings. They were in a rush to get back to work, or they were dealing with their screaming kids, or they had calculated the cost of their meal down to the cent out of necessity and could not afford a mistake. And they had a right to have their meal served the way they ordered it. If a mistake was made, we fixed it as quickly as possible and didn't talk back. Even if I believed the customer had misunderstood some aspect of their order and was actually the one at fault, I was instructed to give the person the benefit of the doubt. Their feelings mattered more than mine. At McDonald's there was no trigger warning for when a customer was about to start yelling, no safe spaces to go to when the restaurant would get so busy that I barely had time to breathe between orders. When a group of men in the drive-thru would whistle and catcall me as they pulled away, there was no university administrator for me to run to for soothing and reassurance. And from these experiences the good, the bad, and the flat out ugly, I grew. Or, to use a word one doesn't see much anymore, I matured. I learned to take care of myself in ways that didn't inconvenience anyone Or draw unnecessary attention to myself Or let my personal problems interfere with the work that had to be done. In short, I had a job to do and people counted on me to do it. Had I complained to my McDonald's manager that I became anxious when the restaurant was crowded or that hearing complaints from customers made me nervous, he would have politely handed me my paycheck and shown me the door. I would have gone home and been unable to pay the student contribution from summer work that is built into my financial aid package. So, I'm grateful to have worked at McDonald's. It taught me how to better handle my anxiety; how to work with others in pursuit of a common goal. It strengthened my character, my work ethic, and my sense of my own resilience. These are lessons that cannot be learned in the safe spaces of the Haverford campus. Here's one more thing I learned: putting oneself first is the essence of privilege. But putting oneself first does not develop character or lead to personal growth. Putting others first does. McDonald's is a far better teacher of that lesson than college. I'm Olivia Ligaspi of Haverford College for Prager University.
Carbons emissions are rising - and faster than most scientists predicted. But many climate-change alarmists seem to claim that all climate change is worse than expected. This ignores that much of the data is actually more encouraging than expected. Yes, Arctic sea ice is melting faster than the models expected. But models also predicted that Antarctic sea ice would decrease, yet Antarctic Sea ice is increasing. Yes, sea levels are rising, but the rise is not accelerating - if anything, two recent papers, one by Chinese scientists published in January 2014, and the other by U.S. scientists published in May 2013, have shown a small decline in the rate of sea-level increase. We are often being told that we're seeing more and more droughts, but a study published in March 2014 in the journal Nature actually shows a decrease in the world's surface that has been afflicted by droughts since 1982. Facts like these are important because a one-side focus on worst-case stories is a poor foundation for sound policies. Hurricanes are likewise used as an example of things getting worse. But look at the U.S., where we have the best statistics: if we adjust for population and wealth, hurricane damage during the period of 1900-2013 actually decreased slightly. At the UN climate conference in Lima, Peru in December 2014 attendees were told that their countries should cut carbon emissions to avoid future damage from storms like Typhoon Hagupit, which hit the Philippines during the conference, killing at least 21 people and forcing more than a million into shelters. Yet the trend for strong typhoons around the Philippines have actually declined since 1950, according to a study published in 2012 by the Journal of Climate. Again, we're told that all things are getting worse, but the facts don't support this. This does not mean that global warming is not real, or a problem, but the one-sided story of alarmism makes us lose focus. If we want to help the world's poor, who are the most threatened by natural disasters, it's less about cutting carbon emissions than it is about pulling them out of poverty. The best way to see this is to look at the world's deaths from natural disasters over time. In the Oxford University database for death rates from floods, extreme temperatures, droughts, and storms, the average in the first part of last century, was more than 130 dead every year per million people. Since then, the death rates have dropped 97% to a new low in the 2010s of less than 4 per million. The dramatic decline is mostly due to economic developments that help nations withstand catastrophes. If you're rich like Florida, a major hurricane might cause plenty of damage to expensive buildings, but it kills few people and causes only a temporary dent in economic output. If a similar hurricane hits a poorer country like the Philippines or Guatemala, it kills many more people and can devastate the economy. So let's be clear. Climate change is not worse than we thought That doesn't mean it's is not a reality or not a problem. It is. But the narrative that the world's climate is changing from bad to worse is unhelpful alarmism that prevents us from focusing on smart solutions. A well-meaning environmentalist might argue that, because climate change is a reality, why not ramp up the rhetoric and focus on the bad news to make sure the public understands its importance? But that's exactly what we've done for the past 20 years. Yet despite dramatic headlines, apocalyptic documentaries and annual climate summits, carbon emissions continue to rise, especially in rapidly developing countries like India, China and many African nations. Alarmism has encouraged the pursuit of a one-sided climate policy of trying to cut carbon emissions by subsidizing wind farms and solar panels. Yet today, according to the International Energy Agency, only about 0.4% of global energy consumption comes from solar photovoltaics and windmills. And even with exceptionally optimistic assumptions about future deployment of wind and solar, the International Energy Agency expects that these energy forms will provide a minuscule 2.2% of the world's energy by 2040. In other words, for at least the next two decades, solar and wind energy are simply expensive, feel-good measures that will have an imperceptible climate impact. Instead, we should focus on investing in research and development of green energy to lower its costs, so everyone will want it, including China and India. We urgently need a more balanced climate conversation if we are to make sensible choices and pick the right climate policy that can actually help fix climate change. I'm Bjorn Lomborg, president of the Copenhagen Consensus Center.
What's the major difference between liberals and conservatives? For liberals the answer is easy. Liberals are compassionate and conservatives are mean. I am a liberal, public radio host Garrison Keillor wrote in 2004, and liberalism is the politics of kindness. President Barack Obama agrees. Kindness covers all of my political beliefs, he has said. Earlier in his political career, Senator Obama urged college students to broaden your ambit of concern and empathize with the plight of others. If liberalism is the politics of kindness, it follows that conservatism must be the opposite heartless. New York Times columnist Paul Krugman contends that conservatives want to limit government spending on social welfare programs because they take positive glee in inflicting further suffering on the already miserable. Is this characterization fair? Is it accurate? Hardly. For one thing, helping others - generosity - requires resources to be generous with. To provide needy people tangible assistance, as opposed to inconsequential gestures, requires wealth. And wealth has to be created before it can be donated. This necessity, however, complicates the politics of kindness. Both economic theory and the historical record of different, competing economic systems, clearly show that the best way to create wealth is to narrow, rather than broaden, the ambit of our concern. Adam Smith, the founder of modern economics, wrote in 1776, It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. Our natural desire to care more for our families and friends than for distant strangers is not a moral defect, but an advantage. Free markets and voluntary associations, such as churches and civic groups, make the most of this asset. The welfare state tears it down. There is, then, a glaring contradiction in the politics of kindness: On the one hand, liberals frequently criticize the selfishness of people preoccupied with building careers, businesses, and investments. On the other, liberals are bursting with ideas for all the humane things government can do by redistributing the wealth created by these so-called selfish people. There's another contradiction. Liberals champion government action as the best vehicle to alleviate suffering. At the same time, they are uninterested in the question of whether these government programs actually do alleviate suffering. To take just one example, the government's own studies have demonstrated that the federal pre-school program Head Start does not achieve its goals. Children enrolled in it are no better off by the end of the first grade than those children who don't enroll. But this program has lost none of its liberal luster. On the contrary, liberals constantly call for its expansion. Our federal, state, and local governments spend more than $3.2 trillion per year on programs designed to prevent or relieve poverty. That's more than $10,000 per American. Yet the official poverty rate has fluctuated in the same narrow range, from 11 to 15 percent of the population, for the past 40 years. How can the politics of kindness be so cavalier about whether government efforts to alleviate suffering succeed? The problem is not a deficiency of compassion, but the defective moral logic of compassion itself. The word compassion means, literally, suffering together with another. And there's the problem. The whole point of compassion is for empathizers to feel better when the awareness of another's suffering distresses the observer. But this ultimate purpose does not guarantee that those who are the object of empathy will fare better. So, on top of all its other problems, our $3 trillion welfare state doesn't work because its liberal architects and defenders don't really care whether it works. The liberal asks, Does it feel good? The conservative asks, Does it do good? If you really want to help people, it should be pretty obvious which is the more important question. I'm Bill Voegeli, of the Claremont Institute, for Prager University.
In the contemporary world, it's taken as a given that capitalism, with its free market and profit motive, is based on selfishness and produces selfishness, while socialism is based on selflessness and produces selflessness. Well, the opposite is true. Whatever its intentions, socialism produces far more selfish individuals and a far more selfish society than a free-market economy does. And once this widespread selfishness catches on, it is almost impossible to undo it. Here's an illustration: In 2010 the United States President, Barack Obama, addressed a large audience of college students. At one point in his speech, he announced that young people will now be able to remain on their parents' health insurance plan until age 26. I don't ever recall hearing a louder, more thunderous, or more sustained applause than I did then. Had the president announced that a cure for cancer had been discovered, it is highly doubtful that the applause would have been as loud or as long. But what were they so happy about? To be told that you can now remain dependent on your parents until age 26 should strike a young person as demeaning, not liberating. Throughout American history and, for that matter, all of Western history, the great goal of young people was to become a mature adult beginning with being independent of Mom and Dad. Socialism and the welfare state destroy this aspiration. In various European countries and now increasingly in the US, it is becoming common for young people to live with their parents well into their 30s and not infrequently beyond. And why not? In the welfare state, taking care of yourself is no longer a virtue. Why? Because the government will take care of you. Therefore: Socialism enables -- and as a result produces -- people whose preoccupations become more and more self-centered: How many benefits will I receive from the government? Will the government pay for my education? Will the government pay for my health care? What is the youngest age at which I can retire? How much paid vacation time can I get? How many days can I call in sick and still get paid? How many weeks of paid paternity or maternity leave am I entitled to? The list gets longer with every election of a liberal or progressive or left-wing party. And then each entitlement becomes a "right." But we're not done. There are even more destructive effects of Socialism. Entitlements create citizens who lack a character trait that every human should have -- gratitude. You cannot be happy if you are not grateful and you cannot be a good person if you are not grateful. That's why we constantly tell our children, Say 'thank you.'" But socialism undoes that. After all, why would a person be grateful for receiving an entitlement who's going to be grateful for getting what they're entitled to? So, instead of "thank you," the citizen of the welfare state is taught to say, "What more am I entitled to?" Yet the Left insists that it's capitalism and the free market, not socialism, that produces selfish people. But the truth is that capitalism and the free market produce much less selfish people. Teaching people to work hard and take care of themselves (and others) and that they should earn what they receive, produces less selfish, not more selfish, people. Capitalism teaches people to work more; socialism teaches people to demand more. Which attitude do you think will make a better society? I'm Dennis Prager.
Did you ever run a lemonade stand when you were a kid? The lemonade stand is often one of the first experiences people have with running a business. You learn about marketing. What will your sign say and how will it look? What will you charge for your lemonade? Can you charge more when it's hot out? You also learn one of the harder lessons about business: the difference between sales and profits. If a kid collects $20 selling lemonade for an afternoon, she might think she gets to keep all the money. And sometimes she can if mom provides all the lemons, sugar, and cups for free. But in a real business, you have to pay for those things. Let's say those items cost $17. In this case, total sales are the $20 collected from the customers and the profit is the amount left after all costs are paid $3. Most businesses have pretty low profit margins. that is the profit made on each sales dollar. For example, grocery stores only keep $0.02 on every dollar they collect from customers. And restaurants only get a little more around $0.03 for every dollar in food they sell. That can add up if you own a chain of grocery stores or restaurants. But, most business owners don't own multiple locations. When governments add new regulations onto businesses, (even well-intended rules like requiring them to pay for healthcare, charging them for special licenses, or telling business how much to pay their employees) business owners have to figure out how to pay for those additional costs out of those low profits. This often means reducing the number of employees, switching to more self-service, or increasing prices. So the next time you hear about a new government requirement for business, just remember that they have to figure out how to pay for it. Too often, the result is a lost job or higher prices for you.
97 percent of climate scientists agree that climate change is real. How many times have you heard that statement? Probably hundreds. It may seem like a compelling and scientific argument against fossil fuels, but it's one of the most illogical, unscientific arguments you can make. To see how, let's use this form of argument for another controversial product, vaccines. An anti-vaccine person approaches you and says, 97 percent of doctors say that the side effects of vaccines are real. What would you say in response? You'd probably say, Yeah but the benefits far outweigh the side effects. By saying that 97% of doctors agree that vaccine side effects are real without mentioning any of the benefits of vaccines, the anti-vaccine activist is trying to get you to look at the potential dangers of vaccines out of context. When fossil fuel opponents say 97 percent of climate scientists agree that climate change is real, they are doing the same. Yes, using fossil fuels for energy has a side effect - increasing the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. Okay. But what about the upside? In the case of fossil fuel that upside is enormous: the cheap, plentiful, and reliable energy that makes modern life possible, and at a scale no other energy source can match. So, how significant is the side effect? This raises another problem with the statement 97% percent of climate scientists agree that climate change is real. It tells us nothing about the meaning or magnitude of climate change - whether it's a mild, manageable warming or a runaway, catastrophic warming. This is an example of the fallacy of equivocation - using the same term in different, contradictory ways. If someone were to say 97% of doctors agree that vaccine side effects are real, what exact vaccine side effects do the doctors agree on? That a certain number of babies will get a rash? Or that large percentages will get full-blown autism? Precision is key, right? But fossil fuel opponents don't want you to know the precise magnitude of climate change. Because if you did you wouldn't be scared of climate change, you would be scared of losing the benefits of fossil fuels. For example, listen to how Secretary of State John Kerry manipulates the 97 percent of scientists line. 97 percent of climate scientists have confirmed that climate change is happening and that human activity is responsible, he said in a speech in Indonesia in 2014. Later, in the same speech, he claimed that Scientists agree that, The world as we know it will change - and it will change dramatically for the worse. 97 percent of climate scientists never said any such thing. So what did the 97 percent actually say? It turns out, nothing remotely resembling catastrophic climate change. One of the main studies justifying 97 percent was done by John Cook, a climate communications fellow for the Global Change Institute in Australia. Here's his own summary of his survey: Cook et al. found that over 97 percent [of papers surveyed] endorsed the view that the Earth is warming up and human emissions of greenhouse gases are the main cause. Main cause means over 50 percent. But the vast majority of papers don't say that human beings are the main cause of recent warming. In fact, one analysis showed that less than 2 percent of papers actually said that. How did Cook get to 97 percent, then? First, he added papers that explicitly said there was man-made warming but didn't say how much. Then, he added papers that didn't even say there was man-made warming, but he thought it was implied. A scientific researcher has a sacred obligation to accurately report his findings. Cook and researchers like him have failed us - as have the politicians and media figures who have blindly repeated the 97 percent claim to support their anti-fossil fuel goals. How can we protect ourselves against this kind of manipulation? Whenever someone tells you that scientists agree on something, ask two questions: What exactly do they agree on? And, How did they prove it? I'm Alex Epstein, author of The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels, for Prager University.
If you had something really important to mail, would you head to the Post Office, which is run by the government and considered part of the public sector, or would you go to a place like UPS or FedEx, which are private businesses. Politicians in the media often talk about the private and public sectors of our economy but what's the difference? And which one is more effective? The private sector is made up of businesses or corporations owned by people. The private sector includes malls, grocery stores, and your local diner. To make a profit in the private sector, businesses must earn our money by offering us products and services that we want or need. When businesses have to compete for the same dollars, prices go down because no one wants to pay twice as much for shoes at one store if you can get the same pair cheaper at another place. On the other hand, the public sector is not supported by profits, so It doesn't have to compete for our dollars. Instead, the public sector uses our tax dollars to fund its services. So we pay for these programs no matter how much or how little we use them. The government decides how our tax dollars should be spent in the public sector. This makes sense for some things. For example, you probably wouldn't want firefighters or police officers competing with one another for your business. In other cases though, this means things cost more or service is worse. The U.S. Post Office has $100 billion in debt and is regularly bailed out with taxpayer money. And the Department of Motor Vehicles isn't usually known for fast, friendly service. In contrast, private companies know that if they offer poor customer service and don't make money, they'll go out of business. When comparing the private sector with the public sector, it's clear that the market-driven private sector is more efficient. When you don't have to be profitable or accountable, things tend to be more expensive and the service is worse. So when there's a choice between a private sector or a government service, think about that package you really need delivered.
One of the staple arguments of American liberals, from Presidents Woodrow Wilson to Bill Clinton, from education reformer John Dewey to New York Times columnist Tom Friedman is that they "don't believe in labels." Liberals are "pragmatists," and "realists," and "empiricists." They only care about "what works." Conservatives, meanwhile, are "ideologues" or extremists, or dogmatists, or just plain lunatics who are blinded by ideology. Here's what President Barack Obama said on the subject: "What is required is a new declaration of independence, not just in our nation, but in our own lives from ideology and small thinking, prejudice and bigotry." Did you catch that? If you have an ideology, you belong amongst the bigots and the mentally confused. Once you start paying attention, you'll hear variations on this claim all over the place. In truth, it is a very old technique, pioneered by none other than Napoleon Bonaparte, who sought to demonize his critics as mesmerized theorists enthralled to an ideology while he put the needs of the nation above all considerations. Marx picked up the technique, arguing that only the people who agreed with him were free of mind-warping ideology. The desirability and inevitability of socialism was to them a scientific fact, and therefore anyone who disagrees with scientific fact must be, in effect, brainwashed. In the 20th Century, the American Progressives offered their own version of the same idea. They created a whole philosophical school -- Pragmatism -- which as a matter of principle rejected philosophical principles. William James, the most important founder of Pragmatism argued that we should measure ideas not by whether they are right or wrong, but by whether they "work." Ideas are right if they have "cash value," according to James. Herbert Croly, the founder of the New Republic, responding to the criticism that his liberal magazine was too pro-Mussolini -- whose ideas seemed to be working in Italy at the time -- said it well: "If there are any abstract liberal principles, we do not know how to formulate them. Nor if they are formulated by others do we recognize their authority. Liberalism, as we understand it, is an activity." Contemporary American liberalism has inherited this pose. It is certain it knows "what works" liberalism! And what is liberalism? What liberals do! It's an activity! -- and they denigrate opposing viewpoints not as competing ideas or positions, but as the products of a warped, "ideological" worldview. How often do you hear people say, "I don't believe in labels? Whether its liberal politicians, TV news anchors, columnists, cable news hosts or your brother-in-law, Harry, the line always goes something like this: "Why can't we move beyond these partisan labels? Why can't we get beyond this philosophical divide and get to the hard work of dealing with the problems facing the American people?" Warning: People only they say these things when they want you to shut up and get with their program. What you never hear them say is: "We need to move beyond these partisan labels, we need to get beyond the philosophical divide and for that reason I'm going to abandon all of my principles and agree with you." Look, I'm not saying that liberal ideological positions are wrong. That's another discussion. My point is that liberals are wrong when they say they don't have ideological principles in the first place. Moreover, there's nothing wrong with having ideological principles. To say that you have ideological principles isn't really all that different from saying that you simply have principles. Like with anything else, there are good ideologies and bad ideologies, good ideas, bad ideas. Think of ideology as a checklist of your priorities your first principles. Do you consider economic freedom important or trivial? Is the right to life fundamental or frivolous? Is private property a more valuable principle than economic redistribution? These are all ideological questions, and asking them doesn't make you closed-minded, it makes you more serious-minded. There is no "un-ideological" answer to these questions. On abortion, for example, if you come down on the pro-life side, you're being ideological and if you come down on the pro-choice side you're still being ideological. The difference is that people who take their principles seriously understand that they have principles. And when they string them together, they have an ideology. It is the people who constantly reject rigorous thinking because they are afraid to be led beyond their easy instincts who are closed-minded. The fear of hypocrisy, of judging people, of making hard choices on principle: this is the fear of ideology that causes people to retreat into relativism or nihilism or what we might call here no-labelism. As GK Chesterton wrote: Trees have no dogmas and turnips are singularly broad-minded. In terms of ideology, serious people should aspire to be more than a tree or a turnip. I'm Jonah Goldberg for Prager University.
Culture matters. It s the primary source of social progress or regression. Nowhere do we see this more clearly than in the status of women. The Judeo-Christian culture -- and perhaps a more apt word is civilization -- has produced over time the law codes, language and material prosperity that have greatly elevated women's status. But this progress is not shared everywhere. There are still hundreds of millions of people that live in a culture -- the Islamic, for instance -- that takes female inferiority for granted. Until recently, these cultures -- the Western and the Islamic -- were, for the most part, separated. But that is changing. Dramatically so. Large numbers of immigrant men from the Middle East, South Asia and various parts of Africa have brought a different set of values to the West, specifically Europe. More than a million arrived in 2015 alone. More are on the way. As a result, crimes against girls and women -- groping, harassments, assaults and rape - have risen sharply. These crimes illustrate the stark difference between the Western culture of the victims and that of the perpetrators. Let me be clear: not all immigrant men, or even most, indulge in sex attacks or approve of such attacks, but it's a grave mistake to deny that the value system of the attackers is radically different from the value system of the West. In the West women are emancipated and sexually autonomous. Religiosity and sexual behavior or sexual restraint is determined by women's individual wishes. The other value system is one in which women are viewed as either commodities (that is, their worth depends on their virginity), or on the level of a prostitute if they are guilty of public "immodesty" (wearing a short skirt for example). I do not believe these value systems can coexist. The question is which value system will prevail. Unfortunately, this remains an open question. The current situation in Europe is deeply troubling: not only are Muslim women within Europe subject to considerable oppression in many ways, such norms now risk spreading to non-Muslim women who face harassment from Muslim men. One would think that Western feminists in the United States and Europe would be very disturbed by this obvious misogyny. But sadly, with few exceptions, this does not appear to be the case. Common among many Western feminists is a type of moral confusion, in which women are said to be oppressed everywhere and that this oppression, in feminist Eve Ensler's words, is "exactly the same" around the world, in the West just as in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran. To me, this suggests too much moral relativism and an inadequate understanding of Shariah law. It is true that the situation for women in the West is not perfect, but can anyone truly deny that women enjoy greater freedom and opportunities in the United States, France and Finland than they do in Iran, Pakistan or Saudi Arabia? Other feminists have also argued that non-Western women do not need "saving" and that any suggestion that they "need" help from Western feminists is insulting and condescending to non-Western women. My perspective is a practical one: any efforts that help Muslim women -- whether they live in the West or under Islamic governments should be encouraged. Every effort to pressure these governments to change unjust laws should be supported. Western feminists -- and female Western leaders -- have a simple choice to make: Either excuse the inexcusable, or demand reform in cultures and religious doctrines that continue to oppress women. Nothing illustrates this better than what happened in Cologne, Germany on New Years Eve, 2015. That night, during the city's traditional celebrations, numerous German women (467 at the last count) reported being sexually harassed or assaulted by men of North African and Arab origin. Within two months, 73 suspects had been identified -- most of them from North Africa; 12 of them have been linked to sexual crimes. Yet, in response to the attacks, Cologne's feminist Mayor Henriette Reker issued an "arm's length" guideline to women. " Just keep an arm's length distance between you and a mob of Arab men, she advised Cologne's female population, and you will be fine. Mayor Reker's comments underline the seriousness of the problem: a culture clash is upon us. The first step in resolving it is to unapologetically defend the values that have allowed women to flourish. Feminists with their organizations, networks and lobbying power need to be on the front lines on this battle. Their relevance depends on it. And so does the well being of countless women, Western and non-Western. I'm Ayaan Hirsi Ali of Harvard University for Prager University.
In this Prager University course, I want to focus not on the evidence for God's existence, but on the benefits of belief. If God exists, then the world didn't just evolve by chance, but by deliberate design. There's an Artist behind this incredible work of art, this big, and beautiful world. If God exists, we're living in a great story, an epic like "The Lord of the Rings," with real heroes and heroic tasks. Ultimately, all the twists and turns of this epic narrative will be paid off, everything will make sense. It will even have a happy ending, not necessarily, or even likely, in our own lifetime -- even Moses didn't get into the Promised Land -- but over the grand course of time in an afterlife, which exists as surely as God exists. If God exists, the presence of evil, hard as it is to accept, makes sense. God allows it for a reason -- namely, to preserve our free will. And God will reconcile all injustices in the end. If there is no God, life is one big crapshoot. If God does exist, morality is a real, objective feature of the world. If there is no God, morality is just the rules we make up for this little game of life we play. If God exists, love is the nature of an eternal reality. If there is no God, love is just a fleeting feeling, no more than a bunch of chemical and neurological interactions. If God exists, you are of infinite value. He knows you -- as a parent knows his child. He's accessible to you. If there is no God, each of us is as insignificant as a rock on an unknown planet. If God exists, death is conquered because if there is a God there is a reality outside of space and time. If there is no God, there is nothing immortal, and all the good things in life are destroyed forever. You, and everyone you love, and everything you think matters are all consigned to oblivion. If there is no God, life is pointless. Everything we've done and lived for will ultimately be in vain. Can I prove with an absolute certainty that God exists? I can make the case that overwhelming evidence suggests that he does. But no I can't prove that He exists with absolute certainty. That's likely part of His plan. God deliberately doesn't give us absolute proof so that we're free to choose or not to choose to believe in Him. So which way do you want to go? Be honest. Doesn't your heart at least hope that there is a good God, a transcendent validator of love and all the highest human values? Of course it does. Why would anyone not wish that life has some ultimate purpose, that good and evil are real, that there is ultimate justice, that our love for others means something? If you choose to live as if there is a God -- even if you are not sure there is a God -- you lose nothing and you gain everything. Religious Christians and Jews are happier, live longer, and are more charitable than their less observant or secular fellow citizens. These are not my opinions -- these are the findings of a multitude of scientific studies. If you have been an atheist for a while, it may be difficult for you to change your thinking, even if you find some merit in the many rational arguments for God's existence. But you can change your behavior. You can live as if God's exists, even if you hold doubts. Why not? As I said, you lose nothing and you have everything to gain. This behavioral approach is far from new. The Jews have long had a saying, We will do, and we will understand, which acknowledges that action often precedes understanding. So why not begin with an action? Why not pray the prayer of the skeptic? "God, if you exist, you must know that I'm not a believer. So, please, God, give me the gift of faith, in your time and in your way. I want to believe whatever is true. Amen. If you say that and mean it, and give it some time, be prepared, because He will not ignore that prayer. Go on, say it. Find a private place and say it. Your Creator is listening. I'm Peter Kreeft, Professor of Philosophy at Boston College, for Prager University.
Years ago, I interviewed Kweisi Mfume, then the president of the NAACP. As between the presence of white racism and the absence of black fathers, I asked him, Which poses the bigger threat to the black community? Without missing a beat, he said, The absence of black fathers. It was President Barack Obama who said, "We all know the statistics. That children who grow up without a father are five times more likely to live in poverty and commit crime; nine times more likely to drop out of school and 20 times more likely to end up in prison. The Journal of Research on Adolescence confirms that even after controlling for varying levels of household income, kids in father-absent homes are more likely to end up in jail. And kids who never had a father in the house are the most likely to wind up behind bars. In 1960, 5 percent of America's children entered the world without a mother and father married to each other. By 1980 it was 18 percent, by 2000 it had risen to 33 percent, and fifteen years later, the number reached 41 percent. For blacks, even during slavery when marriage for slaves was illegal, black children were more likely than today to be raised by both their mother and father. Economist Walter Williams has written that, according to census data, from 1890 to 1940, a black child was more likely to grow up with married parents than a white child. For blacks, out-of-wedlock births have gone from 25 percent in 1965 to 73 percent in 2015. For whites, from less than 5 percent to over 25 percent. And for Hispanics, out-of-wedlock births have risen to 53 percent. What happened to fathers? The answer is found in a basic law of economics: If you subsidize undesirable behavior you will get more undesirable behavior. In 1949, the nation's poverty rate was 34 percent. By 1965, it was cut in half, to 17 percent -- all before President Lyndon Johnson's so-called War on Poverty. But after that war began in 1965, poverty began to flat line. From 1965 until now, the government has spent over $20 trillion to fight poverty. The poverty rate has remained unchanged, but the relationship between poor men and women has changed dramatically. That's because our generous welfare system allows women, in effect, to marry the government. And this makes it all too easy for men to abandon their traditional moral and financial responsibilities. Psychologists call such dependency "learned helplessness." How do we know that the welfare state creates disincentives that hurt the very people we are trying to help? They tell us. In 1985, the Los Angeles Times asked both the poor and the non-poor whether poor women "often" have children to get additional benefits. Most of the non-poor respondents said no. However, 64 percent of poor respondents said yes. Now, who do you think is in a better position to know? Tupac Shakur, the late rapper, once said: "I know for a fact that had I had a father, I'd have some discipline. I'd have more confidence." He admitted he began running with gangs because he wanted the things a father gives to a child, especially to a boy: structure and protection. Your mother cannot calm you down the way a man can, Shakur said. You need a man to teach you how to be a man." In my book "Dear Father, Dear Son," I write about my rough, tough World War II Marine staff sergeant dad. Born in the Jim Crow South of Athens, Ga., he was 14 at the start of the Great Depression. Growing up, I watched my father work two full-time jobs as a janitor. He also cooked for a rich family on the weekends--and somehow managed to go to night school to get his GED. When I was 10, my father opened a small restaurant that he ran retired until he in his mid-80s. He was never angry or bitter--and insisted that today's America was very different from the world of racial segregation and limited opportunity in which he grew up. "Hard work wins, he told me and my brothers. You get out of life what you put into it. You can't control the outcome, but you are 100% in control of the effort. And before blaming other people, go to the nearest mirror and ask yourself, what could I have done to change the outcome?' This advice shaped my life. Fathers matter. Until we have a government policy that makes that its first priority, nothing will change. I'm Larry Elder for Prager University.
There are only two things I can tell you today that come with absolutely no agenda. The first is Congratulations. The second is Good luck. Everything else is what I like to call, The Dirty Truth, which is just another way of saying, It's my opinion. And in my opinion, you have all been given some terrible advice, and that advice, is this: Follow your passion. Every time I watch the Oscars, I cringe when some famous movie star - trophy in hand - starts to deconstruct the secret of their success. It's always the same thing: Don't let anyone tell you that you don't have what it takes, kid!; and the ever popular, Never give up on your dreams! Look, I understand the importance of persistence, and the value of encouragement, but who tells a stranger to never give up on their dreams, without even knowing what it is they're dreaming? I mean, how can Lady Gaga possibly know where your passion will lead you? Have these people never seen American Idol? Year after year, thousands of aspiring American Idols show up with great expectations, only to learn that they don't possess the skills they thought they did. What's really amazing though, is not their lack of talent - the world is full of people who can't sing. It's their genuine shock at being rejected - the incredible realization that their passion and their ability had nothing to do with each other. Look, if we're talking about your hobby, by all means let your passion lead you. But when it comes to making a living, it's easy to forget the dirty truth: just because you're passionate about something doesn't mean you won't suck at it. And just because you've earned a degree in your chosen field, doesn't mean you're gonna find your dream job. Dream Jobs are usually just that - dreams. But their imaginary existence just might keep you from exploring careers that offer a legitimate chance to perform meaningful work and develop a genuine passion for the job you already have. Because here's another Dirty Truth: your happiness on the job has very little to do with the work itself. On Dirty Jobs, I remember a very successful septic tank cleaner, a multi-millionaire, who told me the secret to his success: I looked around to see where everyone else was headed, he said, "And then I went the opposite way. Then I got good at my work. Then I began to prosper. And then one day, I realized I was passionate about other people's crap. I've heard that same basic story from welders, plumbers, carpenters, electricians, HVAC professionals, hundreds of other skilled tradesmen who followed opportunity - not passion - and prospered as a result. Consider the reality of the current job market. Right now, millions of people with degrees and diplomas are out there competing for a relatively narrow set of opportunities that polite society calls good careers. Meanwhile, employers are struggling to fill nearly 5.8 million jobs that nobody's trained to do. This is the skills gap, it's real, and its cause is actually very simple: when people follow their passion, they miss out on all kinds of opportunities they didn't even know existed. When I was 16, I wanted to follow in my grandfather's footsteps. He was a skilled tradesman who could build a house without a blueprint. That was my passion, and I followed it for years. I took all the shop classes at school, I did all I could to absorb the knowledge and skill that came so easily to my granddad. Unfortunately, the handy gene is recessive. It skipped right over me, and I struggled mightily to overcome my deficiencies. But I couldn't. I was one of those contestants on American Idol, who believed his passion was enough to ensure his success. One day, I brought home a sconce I had made in wood-shop that looked like a paramecium. After a heavy sigh, my granddad gave me the best advice I've ever received. He told me, "Mike, you can still be a tradesman, but only if you get yourself a different kind of toolbox." At the time, this felt contrary to everything I believed about the importance of "passion" and persistence and "staying the course." But of course, he was right. Because staying the course only makes sense if you're headed in a sensible direction. And while passion is way too important to be without, it is way too fickle to follow around. Which brings us to the final Dirty Truth. Never follow your passion, but always bring it with you. Congratulations, again - and good luck. I'm Mike Rowe from mikeroweWORKS, for Prager University.
Mention the Korean War today and most people will look at you with a blank stare. At the time it was fought, just five years after World War II ended, everyone recognized it as a world-shaping conflict, a stark confrontation between the forces of democracy and communism. It began on June 25, 1950 when Soviet-backed communist North Korea crossed the 38th parallel and invaded its US-backed anti-communist South Korean neighbor. Within weeks the communists had nearly absorbed the entire country. The United States at first was confused over whether it should - or even could - respond. America had slashed its military budget after the end of World War II and was short both men and equipment. It still had not awakened fully to the expansionist threat of Soviet Russia. The Soviets - buoyed by their own recent development of an atomic bomb and Mao Zedong's communist victory in China - sensed America's lack of resolve and encouraged the North's aggression. Yet within weeks President Harry Truman rushed troops to save the shrinking Allied perimeter at Pusan on the southern tip of the Korean Peninsula. And by late September, 1950, General Douglas MacArthur had successfully completed the Inchon landings and launched counter-attacks. He quickly reclaimed the entire south and sent American-led United Nations forces far into North Korea to reunite the entire peninsula - only to be surprised when hundreds of thousands of Chinese Red Army troops crossed the Yalu River at the Chinese border and sent the outnumbered Americans reeling back into South Korea. Thanks to the genius of General Matthew Ridgeway, who arrived to assume supreme command in South Korea in December 1950, over the next 100 days US led UN forces pushed the communists back across the 38th Parallel. The fighting was fierce. Seoul, the capital city of South Korea, exchanged hands between communist and US led forces five times before it was finally secured. During the years 1952 and 1953, the war grew static, neither side able to deliver a knockout blow. Eventually the conflict ended with a tense armistice in July 1953. For over the next 60 years, a cold war persisted between the Stalinist North and what, by the 1980s, had evolved into the democratic, economic powerhouse of South Korea. Over 35,000 Americans died in the Korean War. The war marked the first major armed conflict of the Nuclear Age, and one in which the United States had not clearly defeated the enemy and thus not dictated terms of surrender. Was fighting the Korean War and restoring the South - without uniting the entire peninsula - worth the huge cost in blood and treasure? The natural dividend of saving the South was the evolution of today's democratic and prosperous South Korea that has given its 50 million citizens undreamed of freedom and affluence - and has blessed the world with topflight products from the likes of Hyundai, Kia, LG and Samsung. South Korea is a model global citizen and a strong ally of the U.S. - and stands in sharp contrast to the communist regime in the North that has starved and murdered millions of its own people and caused untold mischief in the world community. Had it not been for U.S. intervention and support to the South, the current monstrous regime in Pyongyang would now rule all of Korea, ensuring its nuclear-armed dictatorship even greater power and resources. The American effort to save South Korea also sent a message to both communist China and the Soviet Union that the free world, under U.S. leadership, would no longer tolerate communist military take-overs of free nations. The resulting deterrence policy helped to keep the communist world from attempting similar surprise attacks on Japan, Taiwan, and Western Europe. Finally, the Korean War awakened the United States to the dangers of disarmament and isolationism and led to the bipartisan foreign policy of containment of global communism that in 1989 finally led to the collapse of the Soviet Union, and with it victory in the Cold War. The Korean War was an incomplete American victory in its failure to liberate North Korea and unite the peninsula, but a victory nonetheless. And not just from a military perspective, but from a moral one as well. The reason 35,000 Americans died in Korea was to keep at least half the Korean people free. Korea did not have a single material resource that would have benefited America. The Korean War merits more than a blank stare. It deserves to be remembered and studied with pride. I'm Victor Davis Hanson of the Hoover Institution for Prager University.
American Progressives look to Western Europe as the model of what America should be. So, here's an area of European social policy that Progressives will definitely want to examine more closely: Europe's attitude towardabortion. It happens to be much more restrictive than that of the United States. That's right. Western Europeans -- as progressive and secular as they are -- have a much more conservative attitude about abortion than American Progressives do. Here is what Emily Matchar wrote in The Atlantic magazine in 2013: I assumed that Western Europe would be the land of abortion on demandBut as it turns out, abortion laws in Europe are both more restrictive and more complicated than that. Waiting periods, decried by American pro-choicers asunreasonably burdensome, are common In Germany, for example, nearly all abortions are illegal after 12 weeks. And there is a three-day waiting period and mandatory counseling before a woman is allowed to have an abortion, even during the permitted first 12 weeks. That's more restrictive than Texas. In the U.S., abortions are legal in every state before a pregnancy has reached its 20th week. After that some restrictions do kick in. 11 states prohibit abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy. 20 states prohibit abortions at the point of viability, which is when a baby can survive outside the womb. They usually recognize that as being between 23-25 weeks3 states prohibit abortion after the 28th weekAnd 7 states plus Washington, D.C. allow abortions to be performed at any point in a pregnancy -- even if the mother could safely give birth to a viable and healthy baby. But in Belgium, like Germany, abortions are permissible only until the 12th week. After that an abortion is permitted only if the woman's life is in danger. Furthermore, any woman getting an abortion must wait six days after her first medical consultation before an abortion can be performed. Denmark is similar: After 12 weeks all sorts of restrictions apply. Pregnant women in Finland also have until the 12th week of pregnancy to get an unrestricted abortion, and during those first 12 weeks, a woman must provide a compelling reason for ending her pregnancy. In France, too, abortion on demand is legal only up to 12 weeks, after which it becomes much more difficult. Socialist Sweden allows abortions until the 18th week of pregnancy, and bans most after the 22nd week. In that four week gray period, a woman can get an abortion, but only if it is approved by the National Board of Health and Welfare. In the Netherlands, before having an abortion a woman has to wait five days and attend a counseling session in which she must be informed of the different options available to her, including taking the pregnancy to term and giving her baby up for adoption. A minor under the age of 18 cannot have an abortion at any time unless she has the consent of her parents. And in Norway in 2014, a major controversy erupted after it was revealed that, since 2001, 17 babies had been aborted after 22 weeks, the legal cut off point in that country. That wouldn't merit a paragraph in a local U.S. newspaper, let alone start a media firestorm. So why is it that abortion laws in the United States are so extreme relative to those in Europe? Why is it that progressive politicians in the United States work tirelessly to fight back any restrictions on abortion, even partial-birth abortion. That's the procedure during which a fully viable baby is almost completely delivered, except for the head, before being killed. And why is it that what is unacceptable to socially enlightened Europeans is fully acceptable to American progressives? Europeans seem to recognize that abortion is a complex moral issue; that ending a life after a certain point in a pregnancy does not reflect well on a society. Why is it so hard for American Progressives to recognize the same? I'm Elisha Krauss for Prager University.
It seems that hardly a day goes by in which the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, doesn't appear in a newspaper or on a TV news screen. And the news is always bad -- hideous death and wanton destruction of a type rarely seen in modern history. So, what is the Islamic State? Where did it come from? What does it want? And why? Let's try to answer these questions in turn. First, ISIS is the illegitimate child of Saddam Hussein's regime and al Qaeda. Saddam's former military and intelligence officers hold many of ISIS's most senior positions and have overseen the group's rise to prominence. In 2002 and early 2003, some al Qaeda members relocated from Afghanistan to Iraq, where they prepared to fight the Americans, who toppled Saddam Hussein's regime in March 2003. These jihadists became known as al Qaeda in Iraq when their leader Abu Musab al Zarqawi swore his allegiance to Osama bin Laden in 2004. Zarqawi, a murderous psychopath, was finally killed by US and Iraqi forces in June 2006. Following his death, al Qaeda in Iraq was rebranded as the Islamic State of Iraq. In 2010 a new leader took control of the group -- Abu Bakr al Baghdadi. Taking advantage of the power vacuum left by the complete US withdrawal from Iraq in 2011 and the Syrian Civil War that began that same year, Baghdadi and his lieutenants greatly expanded the size and scope of the organization. At first, Baghdadi was loyal to al Qaeda's senior leadership. But in 2013 he defied orders from his superiors and declared that his group was now the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or Levant, known by its acronyms ISIS and ISIL. It's worth noting that ISIS continues to market Osama bin Laden's endorsement of them to this day. What does ISIS want and why? ISIS is attempting to resurrect an empire similar to those that arose in Islam's early history. These empires were referred to as caliphates and led by a Caliph, the Muslims' chief ruler, also known as the Emir of the Faithful. This is, in fact, how Baghdadi's followers now refer to him. ISIS relies on a rich Islamic mythology, with citations from Islamic texts, to justify its actions and portray itself as the true heirs of Mohammed. Their propaganda videos use Islam's early history to frame their actions as part of an ongoing conflict with the Crusaders. ISIS's leaders want their followers to believe they are fighting as part of this same religious war. When ISIS's Libyan branch executed 21 Egyptian Coptic Christians in 2015, ISIS advertised the slayings in a video titled, A Message Signed With Blood to the Nation of the Cross the Nation of the Cross, of course, meaning Christians. That's why on Libya's Mediterranean shores, the lead executioner of the Egyptian Coptic Christians pointed his knife in the direction of Italy and promised to conquer Rome, the symbolic seat of Christendom. Despite seeking to spark an inter-faith war, however, most of ISIS's victims are Muslims, especially Shiite Muslims for whom ISIS, which is Sunni Muslim, harbors a special animosity. ISIS claims that any Muslim who does not swear bay'ah (an oath of allegiance) to Baghdadi is an infidel or an apostate. Even ISIS's rival jihadists in al Qaeda are considered apostates, because they refuse to genuflect to Baghdadi. In November 2014, Baghdadi announced that his caliphate had expanded into several areas outside of Iraq and Syria. Baghdadi's people set up provinces everywhere from West and North Africa to the Arabian Peninsula to South Asia. ISIS argues that Muslims owe these provinces their loyalty. Most of these provinces control little territory, but they have become prolific killers. Just over one year after Baghdadi's announcement, the Islamic State's provinces had already engaged in hundreds of terrorist attacks. On Oct. 31, 2015, for example, the Islamic State's province in Sinai brought down a Russian airliner, killing all 224 people on board. In sum, ISIS is attempting to become a permanent totalitarian state, inspired by the caliphates of Islam's first decades. From this base, they will spread their ideology to the rest of the world. Anyone who stands in the way is marked for death. But ISIS's caliphate claim rests on its ability to control territory. This is both its strength and Achilles heel. Should it lose significant ground in Iraq and Syria, its caliphate claim will become tenuous, severely damaging its legitimacy in the eyes of many Muslims. How this might happen is a key question for the United States, Europe, Asia and many in the Arab World. But this much we know: It will take much more than air strikes. I'm Tom Joscelyn of The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies for Prager University.
Marriage might have been fine for your parents or grandparents. But of what value is it today? Isn't it, as more and more young people seem to be saying, just a piece of paper? Well, it turns out that that piece of paper might be the most valuable thing you will ever own. Take the case of Doug Taulbee. At age 18, Taulbee worked a minimum wage job operating a press at a factory in Indiana and lived in his parents' basement. I didn't have a care in the world, Taulbee says. I didn't even have any bills. But after marrying at 19 and having kids, Taulbee's perspective changed: I had to step up and think about others and start taking care of them. Taulbee quit his factory job and joined the Army, where he made significantly more money and received housing and health care paid for by the military. Whenever he saw a chance at promotion, he pursued it. It meant more money and benefits for himself and his family. Recently, in a bid to further boost his family's income, he left the Army to work as a finance manager at a car dealership. He's now pulling in six figures. Men who see no need to marry, or who are reluctant to marry until they make more money, could benefit from Taulbee's discovery: Marriage has a transformative effect on the behavior, emotional health, and financial well-being of adults, especially men. Men who get married work harder and more strategically, and earn more money than their single peers from similar backgrounds. Marriage also transforms men's social world; they spend less time with friends and more time with family. They go to bars less and to church more. In the words of Nobel prize-winning economist George Akerlof, men settle down when they get married; if they fail to get married they fail to settle down. My own research bears out Akerlof's view. Married men work about 400 hours more per year than single men with equivalent backgrounds. A Harvard study also found that married men were much less likely than their single peers to quit their current job unless they had another one lined up. All this translates into a substantial marriage premium. On average, married men earn almost 20% more than their single peers. That's even after controlling for differences in education, race, ethnicity, and other background factors. You can read more about this in my study For Richer, For Poorer: How Family Structures Economic Success in America. Why is there such a substantial marriage premium? There are at least four important reasons. 1. After marrying, men assume a new identity. Marriage is one of the last rites of passage into manhood remaining in our society, argues sociologist Steven Nock. He found that marriage engenders an ethic of responsibility among men, as well as a newfound sense of meaning and status in the world. 2. Married men are motivated to maximize their income. This means having a different attitude toward their job. They work more hours, and make better work choices. Studies find that men increase their work hours after marrying and reduce their hours after divorcing. Sociologist Elizabeth Gorman concludes that married men are more likely to value higher-paying jobs than their single peers. 3. There is evidence that employers prefer and promote men who are married. Married men are often seen as more responsible and dedicated workers and are rewarded with more opportunities to advance. Fourth and finally, married men benefit from the advice and encouragement of their wives who have an obvious interest in their success. There is no better motivator than your spouse. The tragedy is that despite all the good news we keep learning about the benefits of marriage, the institution is in retreat. In 1960, 72% of all adults ages 18 and older were married. Today, it's 49%. In 1960,the average age at which men married was 23. Today it's 29. The consequences of this are negative across the income spectrum, but they are especially so for those in the lower and middle classes. Marriage is a clear path to a better life. It always has been. And now we have plenty of data to confirm it. But if still you don't believe me, just ask Doug Taulbee and millions like him. I'm Brad Wilcox Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Virginia for Prager University.
Visit Israel and you'll be startled by how many colors you'll see. I don't mean the colors of the buildings or landscape; I mean the colors of the people -- black, white, olive, brown and everything in between. Israel is a true United Nations. That's because Israel is a nation of refugees -- from everywhere. And more than half of them are from -- are you ready? -- Arab countries. Over 850,000 Jews were expelled or fled from the Middle East and North Africa following the Arab countries' attack on Israel when it gained its independence in 1948. For over two thousand years these Jews had lived in the Arab countries of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq -- and in the Muslim but non-Arab countries such as Turkey and Iran. Today, they form over half of Israel's Jewish population. Many of these Jews from Middle Eastern lands look, well, just like other people from Middle Eastern lands -- of darker complexion with dark hair. Other Jews migrated from North Africa. So, why is their story so unfamiliar to most people? The most important reason is that they didn't remain refugees for long. But refugees they most certainly were: the vast majority forced to leave their homes, possessions and businesses behind. In other words, they came to Israel with nothing. Some 650,000 of the Jews forced to flee North Africa and the Middle East became citizens of Israel. The other 200,000 fled to the United States and other Western countries. To give you an idea of how few Jews remain in Arab countries, consider these numbers: There were 150,000 Jews in Iraq in 1948; today there are less than 10. There were 140,000 Jews in Algeria; today there are less than 50. There were 75,000 Jews in Egypt; today less than 20. The pattern is the same across North Africa and the Middle East. Now contrast these forgotten Jewish refugees with the most celebrated refugees in the world -- the Palestinians. How is it that the Jewish refugees are not even an afterthought, but the Palestinians are the longest lasting, most lavishly supported refugee population in the history of the world? The answer is purely political. After Israel gained its independence in May of 1948, the surrounding Arab nations attacked the new Jewish state. As a result about 700,000 Arabs living in Israel fled. Many left because of the war, and many did because they were told by Arab leaders to leave the Jewish areas. The idea was that they would return once the Jews and their state had been destroyed. Khalid al Azm, the Syrian Prime Minister in 1948-49, admitted this Arab role in persuading Palestinians to leave. In his memoirs, he wrote: Since 1948, we have been demanding the return of the refugees to their homes. But we ourselves are the ones who encouraged them to leave. That's how the Arab, later re-named Palestinian, refugee crisis was created. In 1949 the United Nations formed UNRWA -- the United Nations Relief & Works Agency for the Palestinian refugees -- the largest and only long-term UN agency that was ever formed to deal with just one group of refugees. Seventy years later it still exists and still calls the Palestinians, and their children, and their grandchildren, refugees. It has an annual budget of over a billion dollars, funded mostly by the US and the European Union. How much did the Jewish refugees who were expelled from the Middle East and North Africa receive from the UN? How much did Israel receive to help toward their resettlement? How much does it receive today? The answer to all three questions is the same: Zero. So, the next time you hear someone talk about the Palestinian refugees, ask them why they never talk about the Jewish refugees. And the next time you hear people talk about Israel being settled by Europeans, ask them if they have ever seen an actual picture of Israelis. In color. I'm Dumisani Washington of Christians United for Israel for Prager University.
In 2011, a solar power company called Solyndra declared bankruptcy. A company going bankrupt is not news. But Solyndra was not just any company. Its biggest investor was the federal government which had given it $500 million dollars. That was news. But, really, it shouldn't have been. If history is any guide, it was quite predictable. The government is a very poor investor. And always has been. There are countless examples, but two should serve our purpose here. After the Civil War, American leaders were anxious to bind the country's North, South, East, and West regions together with transcontinental railroads. Congress therefore gave massive federal aid to build the Union Pacific, the Central Pacific, and later the Northern Pacific Railroads. But all three of these roads had huge financial problems. The Union Pacific, for example, was mired in financial scandal from its inception, went bankrupt several times, and had to rebuild large sections of track thanks to shoddy construction practices. At that same time, James J. Hill, with no federal aid whatsoever, built a railroad from St. Paul to Seattle -- the Great Northern. How was Hill able to do with private funds what the Union Pacific failed to do with a gift of tens of millions of federal dollars? The starting point is incentives. The Union Pacific was paid by the government for each mile of road it built. It was in the railroad's interest not to build the road straight. The more miles it took the UP to cross Nebraska, for example, the more money it made. Hill, by contrast, used his own capital. To make a profit, he had to build his Great Northern Railroad sturdy and straight. Hill's company remained in business for almost a hundred years until 1970 when it merged with other railroads. The original Union Pacific, riddled with corruption and numerous other financial misdeeds, including the wholesale bribery of public officials, went broke within ten years. The story of the airplane is even more stark. By the opening of the twentieth century, the major nations of Europe and America were frantically at work trying to invent a flying machine. The first nation to do so would have a huge military and commercial advantage. In fact, leading American politicians of the day, such as Teddy Roosevelt, President William McKinley, and others argued that building an airplane was a national emergency. There was no time, they argued, to wait for private industry to get the job done. The government needed to pick the best aeronautics expert and give him the money he needed. That expert was Samuel Langley, the president of the prestigious Smithsonian Institution and holder of honorary degrees from Harvard, Yale, Oxford, and Cambridge. Langley was already an accomplished inventor and he had written a highly praised book Experiments in Aerodynamics. Federal officials gave Langley funds for two trial flights. He immediately set to work. His theory was that his plane needed to be thrust into the air from a houseboat on the Potomac River. The big engine on the plane would then propel it through air for several minutes. When his first attempt failed, and the plane splashed into the river, Langley was not deterred. But when his second flight did no better, Langley and the politicians gave up. If Langley, with the full backing of the government, could not solve the problem, people simply assumed that it could not be solved. Indeed, The New York Times wrote that human flight might take a million years to accomplish. But to everyone's surprise, nine days after Langley's failure, the Wright brothers, Orville and Wilbur, two bicycle mechanics from Dayton, Ohio, with $2,000 of their own money, conquered the air. On a beach at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, they flew the first plane. Within five years they had constructed an aircraft suitable to sell to the government for military defense. Langley's subsidized failure was similar to that of the Union Pacific. And the Wright brothers' success resembled that of James J. Hill and the Great Northern Railroad. Langley and the Union Pacific were using other people's money. They did not spend it as carefully as Hill and the Wright brothers spent their own money. As the San Francisco Chronicle concluded at the time: The destruction of Langley's machine should put an end to Congressional appropriations of any kind in every field of experiments which properly belongs to private enterprise. That remains good advice. Economic growth comes from entrepreneurs risking their own money, not from politicians risking your money. I'm Burton Folsom, Professor of History at Hillsdale College, for Prager University.
What if I told you that someone had developed an energy source that could help us solve our biggest environmental challenges, purify our water and air, make our cities and homes more sanitary, and keep us safe from potential catastrophic climate change? What if I also told you that this energy source was cheap, plentiful, and reliable? Well, there is such a source. You probably know it as fossil fuel. Oil. Natural gas. Coal. But wait? Don't fossil fuels pollute our environment and make our climate unlivable? That, of course, is what we're toldand what our children are taught. But let's look at the data. Here's a graph you've probably never seen: the correlation between use of fossil fuels and access to clean water. More fossil fuel. More clean water. Am I saying the more we that we have used fossil fuel, the cleaner our water has become? Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying. In the developed world, we take clean water for granted. We turn on a tap and it's there. But getting it there takes a massive amount of energy. Think of the man-made reservoirs, the purification plants, the network of pipes. In the undeveloped world, it's a much different story. They lack the energy, so they lack clean water. More fossil fuel. More clean water. The same is true of sanitation. By the use of cheap, plentiful, and reliable energy from fossil fuels, we have made our environment cleaner. Take a look at this graph. More fossil fuel. Better sanitation. Okay, what about air quality? Here's a graph of the air pollution trends in the United States over the last half century based on data from the Environmental Protection Agency. Note the dramatic downward trend in emissions, even though we use more fossil fuel than ever. How was this achieved? Above all, by using anti-pollution technology powered by fossil fuel: oil, natural gas and coal. But even without modern pollution control technology, fossil fuel makes our air cleaner. Indoor pollution - caused by burning a fire inside your house, cabin, hut or tent to cook and keep warm - was a deadly global problem until the late 19th century when cheap kerosene, a fossil fuel byproduct, became available in America and Europe. Indoor pollution is still a major issue in the developing world today. The best solution? Fossil fuel. And now we come to the biggest fossil fuel concern of all - global warming. On this very sensitive topic we need to get our terms straight: There is a big difference between mild global warming and catastrophic global warming. We can all agree on that, right? The issue isn't: does burning fossil fuel have some warming impact? It does. The issue is: is the climate warming dangerously fast? In 1986 NASA climate scientist James Hansen - one of the world's most prominent critics of the use of fossil fuels - predicted that if current trends are unchanged, temperatures would rise 2 to 4 degrees in the first decade of the 2000s. But as you can see from this graph, since 2000 the trend line is essentially flat - little or no warming in the last 15 years. That's probably why we hear much less talk about global warming and much more talk about climate change. Has this climate change made our world more dangerous? The key statistic here, one that is, unfortunately, almost never mentioned, is climate-related deaths, that is, how many people die each year from a climate-related cause, including droughts, floods, storms, and extreme temperatures. In the last eighty years, as CO2 emissions have rapidly escalated, the annual rate of climate-related deaths worldwide has rapidly declined -- by 98%. The reason is that the energy from fossil fuel has allowed the developed world to build a durable civilization, one highly resilient to extreme heat, extreme cold, floods, storms, and so on. The developing world - where natural disasters can still wreak terrible havoc - would like the chance to do the same. But to do that they will need a lot more energy. The cheapest, fastest and easiest way to get that energy is from fossil fuels. In sum, fossil fuels don't take a naturally safe environment and make it dangerous; they empower us to take a naturally dangerous environment and make it cleaner and safer. I'm Alex Epstein of the Center for Industrial Progress for Prager University.
I'm an atmospheric physicist. I've published more than 200 scientific papers. For 30 years I taught at MIT, during which time the climate has changed remarkably little. But the cry of global warming has grown ever more shrill. In fact, it seems that the less the climate changes, the louder the voices of the climate alarmists get. So, let's clear the air and create a more accurate picture of where we really stand on the issue of global warming or, as it is now called -- climate change. There are basically three groups of people dealing with this issue. Groups one and two are scientists. Group three consists mostly, at its core, of politicians, environmentalists and media. Group one is associated with the scientific part of the United Nation's International Panel on Climate Change or IPCC (Working Group 1). These are scientists who mostly believe that recent climate change is primarily due to man's burning of fossil fuels -- oil, coal and natural gas. This releases C02, carbon dioxide, into the atmosphere and, they believe, this might eventually dangerously heat the planet. Group two is made up of scientists who don't see this as an especially serious problem. This is the group I belong to. We're usually referred to as skeptics. We note that there are many reasons why the climate changes -- the sun, clouds, oceans, the orbital variations of the earth, as well as a myriad of other inputs. None of these is fully understood, and there is no evidence that CO2 emissions are the dominant factor. But actually there is much agreement between both groups of scientists. The following are such points of agreement: 1) The climate is always changing. 2) CO2 is a greenhouse gas without which life on earth is not possible, but adding it to the atmosphere should lead to some warming. 3) Atmospheric levels of CO2 have been increasing since the end of the Little Ice Age in the 19th century. 4) Over this period (the past two centuries), the global mean temperature has increased slightly and erratically by about 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit or one degree Celsius; but only since the 1960's have man's greenhouse emissions been sufficient to play a role. 5) Given the complexity of climate, no confident prediction about future global mean temperature or its impact can be made. The IPCC, acknowledged in its own 2007 report that The long-term prediction of future climate states is not possible. Most importantly, the scenario that the burning of fossil fuels leads to catastrophe isn't part of what either group asserts. So why are so many people worried, indeed, panic stricken about this issue. Here's where Group Three comes in -- the politicians, environmentalists, and media. Global Warming Alarmism provides them, more than any other issue, with the things they most want: For politicians it's money and power. For environmentalists it's money for their organizations and confirmation of their near religious devotion to the idea that man is a destructive force acting upon nature. And for the media it's ideology, money, and headlines -- doomsday scenarios sell. Meanwhile, over the last decade, scientists outside of climate physics have jumped on the bandwagon, publishing papers blaming global warming for everything from acne to the Syrian civil war. And, crony capitalists have eagerly grabbed for the subsidies that governments have so lavishly provided. Unfortunately, group three is winning the argument because they have drowned out the serious debate that should be going on. But while politicians, environmentalists and media types can waste a lot of money and scare a lot of people, they won't be able to bury the truth. The climate will have the final word on that. I'm Richard Lindzen, emeritus professor of Atmospheric Sciences at MIT, for PragerUniversity.
Are American college campuses rape cultures? Are they dangerous places where sexual assaults against women are happening at an alarming rate? According to many gender activists, academics and politicians, the answer is yes. Here's what the Vice-President of the United States, Joe Biden, said in 2014. We know the numbers: one in five of every one of those young women who is dropped off for that first day of school, before they finish school, will be assaulted, will be assaulted in her college years. Let's take a closer look at the Vice President's claim. Rape is a horrific crime, and rapists are rightfully despised. We have strict laws against sexual assault that everyone wants to see enforced. But, while rape is certainly a very serious problem, there is simply no evidence of a national campus rape epidemic, and there's certainly no evidence that sexual violence is a cultural norm in 21st century America. In fact, rates of rape in the US are very low and they've been declining for decades. Why would it be any different on a college campus? Where, then, does the 1 in 5 rate that Vice President Biden cites come from? Well, it turns out it comes from a study conducted over the Internet at two large universities, one in the Midwest and one in the South. The survey was anonymous, no one's claims were verified and terms were not clearly defined. In round numbers a total of 5000 women participated. Based on their responses, the authors, not the participants, determined that 1000 had been victims of some type of non-consensual or unwanted sexual contact. And voila! From one vaguely worded, unscientific survey we suddenly arrive at a rape culture on college campuses. Tellingly, the study authors have since explicitly stated that it is inappropriate to use their survey to make that claim. Much more comprehensive data from the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) estimates that about 1 in 52.6 college women will be victims of rape or sexual assault over the course of four years. That's far too many, but it's a long way from 1 in 5. The same BJS data also reveal that women in college are safer from rape than college-aged women who are not enrolled in college. But the truth doesn't serve the purposes of feminist activists or vote-seeking politicians. Lies work much better. And the 1 in 5 claim is tantamount to a lie. Here are just a few examples of what this lie has wrought. At Scripps College, Pulitzer-Prize winning commentator George Will was disinvited from giving a speech. The reason? He had dared to question the rape culture mantra in a column he wrote. At the all-women Wellesley College, students demanded that the administration remove a campus sculpture of a sleepwalking man wearing only underpants. Why? Well, because the image of a nearly naked male could trigger memories of sexual assault for victims. According to Harvard Law professor, Jeannie Suk, students now ask teachers not to include questions about rape law on exams for fear that such disturbing questions might cause them to perform less well. And at Brown University, students were so traumatized by a debate on the subject of campus sexual assault that activists organized a safe room equipped with coloring books, Play-Doh, calming music, and a video of frolicking puppies. No less absurd are the attempts by colleges and legislators to cure this non-existent plague. In California and New York, students now have to live by so-called Affirmative Consent laws. The California law says that affirmative consent by all parties must be ongoing throughout a sexual activity, while the New York law says that silence or lack of resistance, in and of itself, does not demonstrate consent. Confused? Pity the poor college students who have to figure this out. If it wasn't so serious, it would be laughable. But it's not funny to a growing number of young men who find themselves accused of sexual assault, publicly shamed and then brought before campus judicial panels that are guided by rape-culture theory. In such proceedings, due process is an afterthought: it's guilty because accused. But here's the best way to prove that the 1 in 5 number is phony. Ask yourself this question: Would you send your daughter to a place for four years where there was a twenty percent chance she would be raped or sexually assaulted? Of course not. Good rarely, if ever, comes from lies. The one in five rape culture lie is no exception. I'm Caroline Kitchens of the American Enterprise Institute for Prager University.
We at Prager University understand that America's culture is as important to the nation's health as American politics. And that sport is an important cultural ingredient. So, consider the many reasons why baseball deserves to be the national pastime--the game especially suited to our democracy. First, democracy celebrates ordinary people. Of course baseball players have extraordinary talents. But most players resemble ordinary people. As a wise baseball man once said: To play baseball, you do not need to be seven feet tall or seven feet wide. And baseball, like America, has a strong independent judiciary--the umpires. In fact, baseball is, in one regard, better than the rest of America. In baseball, three strikes and you're out --the most expensive Washington lawyers and lobbyists can't help you. And remember, racial integration came to baseball in 1947, a year before integration came to the armed services. And eight years before Rosa Parks refused to move to the back of the bus in Montgomery, Alabama. Today, baseball is a career open to talented people from around the world. About 20 percent of major leaguers are from outside North America. This is because in baseball the only race that matters is the race to the base. Baseball is a game of episodes--pitch by pitch, out by out, inning by inning, game by game. Hence baseball generates an enormous, constantly enriched sediment of numbers. And these numbers make baseball a game that embraces what a free society requires--personal accountability. Every morning during the season, a player will find in the box score a precise record of what he did the day before--his runs, hits, outs, strike outs, errors. If he was thrown out trying to steal second base, the box score will say so. If he failed to drive in teammates who were in scoring position, the box score will announce this failure to the world. In no other sport--and no other profession-- is individual performance so unsparingly displayed and dissected. Imagine if--every day--America's lawyers and teachers and business people and journalists had to read in the morning's paper a box score measuring the caliber of their previous day's work. A free society like America is a place where people are free to strive--and hence are free to fail. There is a lot of failure in America--most new business ventures fail--and baseball is a game of constant failure. A player who bats .300 is a star--but a star who fails to get a hit 70 percent of the time. And the teams that lose today must pick themselves up, dust themselves off and start all over again tomorrow. For six months. Which brings us to the number that is hardest for most fans to appreciate. It is not one of the famous numbers of individual achievement. Not Joe DiMaggio's 56 game hitting streak in 1941. Not Ted Williams .406 batting average, also in 1941. No, the hardest number to comprehend is 162. That is the number of games each team plays--in about 185 days. Because baseball is the sport of the longest season, it is the sport in which luck matters least. After 162 games, each team is its record--no better, no worse. From the beginning of April to the end of October, the bad bounces and lucky hits even out. Which means baseball is what America aspires to be--a real meritocracy. Baseball also is a good game for a democracy because it teaches democratic lessons. It is a game of the half loaf. In baseball, as in democracy, no one gets everything he wants. Essentially all 30 teams go to Spring Training knowing they are going to win 60 games and lose 60 games. They play the long season to sort out the other 42 games. And every team also knows this: If it wins only 10 out of every 20 games, it is obviously mediocre. But if it wins 11 out of every 20, it will win almost 90 games and have a good chance of playing in the post-season. Which is why in baseball, as in the life of a competitive free society, little differences, ultimately, make an enormous difference. Baseball also is, as America is, both about individualism--and cooperation. The heart of the game is the one-on-one battle between the batter and the pitcher. But baseball also requires teamwork--on offense, to move runners another 90 feet --and on defense, to make 27 putouts. A wise man once said that there are really just two seasons, baseball season--and the void. Happily, the void ends, and another season is here. So take yourself out to a ball game and savor all the ways the national pastime illustrates the nation's values. And while you're there, have a hot dog. That's American culture, too. I'm George Will for Prager University.
I am an American Muslim. And I, along with my mainstream Muslim brethren, in America and abroad, must come to terms with an ever more apparent truth: that we are the only ones who can lead a winning fight against the radicalism crippling our faith. If there was ever any doubt of this, just look at the nature of the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California in December of 2015. What's most troubling about the San Bernardino massacre is that Syed Farook, the husband half of the terrorist couple, seems to have been, by almost all accounts, an ordinary American. His was not a crime born of poverty or lack of opportunity, or an inability to integrate into American society. Just the opposite. He was raised in a middle class environment by first generation Pakistani immigrant parents. He was educated and earned a good living. I too, like many American Muslims, come from a background that is very similar, as the son of Pakistani immigrants, which makes the attack all the more concerning. It seems unthinkable that someone in such a position could be susceptible to radicalization. Yet we have seen it happen time and again among younger Muslims in the Middle East, Europe and now America. Attacks like San Bernardino underscore the importance of countering extremist propaganda. While sophisticated attacks by terrorist groups can be effectively prevented by law enforcement and national-security measures, the truth is there isn't much that can be done by any government - not even stricter gun-control laws - to eliminate the possibility of a radicalized lone wolf wreaking havoc. Only defeating the ideology that inspires these attacks can do that. A propaganda war must be waged against this radicalism and American Muslims have to be on the front lines for it to be credible. Merely condemning Islamist terror is not enough. We must actively engage in counter-extremism messaging. We must build an intellectual and theological case against radical Islam. Our religious leaders have to educate and warn our youth about the dangers of searching for spiritual guidance on the Internet. They must make it perfectly clear that anyone who engages in any act of terrorism is not doing God's work, they're doing the work of the devil. And we in the Muslim community have to continue to be vigilant. If someone who regularly attends mosque stops coming and disappears abruptly after marrying a Pakistani woman in Saudi Arabia whom he met online, it shouldn't take two years and 36 Americans getting shot (including one from that very mosque) before we notice. We have the benefit of living in a nation that protects freedom of speech and association, a nation that values the marketplace of ideas, a nation that allows us all to practice our faith, no matter our religion.We have the opportunity to speak out and challenge radicalism in a way others abroad cannot. There is a war going on that extends beyond Syria, and American Muslims are under siege not by a fringe group of bigoted Americans, but by a fringe group of Muslims abroad who seek to tear our communities apart and take away the freedom that we all cherish. They are trying to target the disaffected among us, hijack the mosque pulpit, and convince us that we're unwelcome in our own country. But if we're serious about leading this fight with unified support, certain things will have to change. We can't call out prejudice against our own faith without also calling out the gender inequality and homophobia that we find in some of our own Muslim communities. We can't be champions of our own religious freedom without also championing the freedom of people of all religious traditions, including other Muslim denominations that we may disagree with. We have to change the way we think about Islamic law and vilify the medieval judicial practices that persist in the Middle East. And we must have the uncomfortable but necessary conversations about where much of the funding for this cancerous supremacist ideology is coming from - Saudi Arabia. We carry with us a responsibility to our country, our faith and our children. The majority of us are here because our parents or grandparents emigrated from oppressive and illiberal nations for the promise of a better life in America. But the way things are heading, our children may grow up with less opportunity and freedom than we did. I can think of no greater defeat and surrender to radicalism than that. I'm Khurram Dara for Prager University.
Americans didn't invent free market capitalism. But you might say they perfected it. In doing so, they created more wealth for more people than any society in the history of the world. To begin to understand this fascinating and complex story, we have to travel back in time to the very first settlers of America. But before we get to the history, let me define what I mean by capitalism. It's not an easy term to pin down because it developed over thousands of years of human interaction. Adam Smith, the great English thinker, first described it in his famous 1776 treatise, The Wealth of Nations, but he didn't invent it. For our purposes here, I define capitalism as an economic system in which individuals freely decide what they will produce and who they will serve. Since both parties have to consent, it's a system in which success demands that you serve the needs of others before you are rewarded for your work. Now back to history: When the first settlers arrived - at Jamestown in 1607 then Plymouth in 1620 - they were operating under an economic system common to all European nations at that time, known as mercantilism. Under mercantilism businesses, especially in colonies, were operated for the benefit of the state. While governments permitted the companies to make profits, their primary purpose was to advance the national interest of England or Spain or France. The early American settlements were set up to be self-sufficient so that the English government didn't have to support them. And they had to stake out territory. That was key to the colonial game: if England held the territory, Spain and France didn't. The early colonists began their adventure with what they thought was a beautiful idea. They set up a common storehouse of grain from which people were supposed to take what they needed and put back what they could. Lands were also held in common and were worked in common. The settlers owned no land of their own. Though there was no name for this system, it was an ideal socialist commune. And you can probably guess what happened. It began to fall apart almost immediately. As the colonists learned, when everyone is entitled to everything, no one's responsible for anything. A colonist who started his workday early or stayed late received the same provision of food as a colonist who showed up late, went home early, or didn't work at all. After about two years, the settlement was reduced to eating shoelaces and rats. Half of them died of starvation. Captain John Smith (of Pocahontas fame) took control of the colony and scrapped the socialist model. Each colonist received his own parcel of land. Private property had come to the New World. He who won't work, won't eat! Smith told them, citing the Biblical admonition. Well they worked. And they ate. And the colony was saved. The same story unfolded further north in the Plymouth colony 10 years later. Although this was a Puritan colony with religious goals, its plan was the same as Jamestown's. And it also failed. As its young governor, William Bradford, noted, by adopting the communal system We thought we were wiser than God. So they quickly abandoned the commune for private ownership. Soon, they had an abundance, which they celebrated with the holiday we now know as Thanksgiving. Over the next 150 years, this hard-learned lesson, that men should be responsible for their own economic fate, became conventional wisdom in the colonies. The American Revolution was largely fought over the burden that British mercantilism placed on the colonies. Two unpopular taxes - The Stamp Act and The Tea Act - are well known examples. The Americans saw the British government regulating and controlling almost all of their economic activities - and didn't like it. Now, it's true that even after gaining independence, none of the Founders could be called capitalists. The idea of capitalism as a description of an economic system was only just beginning to be discussed in America. Yet many of the most influential Founders intuitively gravitated toward free market principles. Thomas Jefferson's ideas of private land ownership shaped the famous Land Ordinance of 1785 that made public land available to private citizens, while Alexander Hamilton's concepts of individual responsibility and sanctity of contracts could be seen in the Panic of 1791-92, in which he steadfastly refused to allow the US government to bail out bankers who had triggered the panic. Benjamin Franklin, of course, had practiced capitalism all his life with his printing business and with his maxims in Poor Richard's Almanac. The Constitution itself is awash in core concepts of a free market: sanctity of contracts, freedom of expression; powerful limits on the government's ability to regulate or tax; an emphasis on paying debts; and so on. In short, it was the wisdom of experience, not academic ideology, that created America's free-market principles. The result has been the most prosperous and free nation in the history of the world. I'm Larry Schweikart of the University of Dayton for Prager University.
Hi, I'm Dennis Prager. Prager University presents the most important ideas in free, five-minute videos on the internet. We explain the ideas that have made America the freest and most prosperous society in history, and we explain why only a free market system can lift a society from poverty, why the world so needs a strong American military, why Judeo-Christian values are the core of Western civilization, and much, much more. And here's the best part: our five-minute videos reach tens of millions of people across the world. How do we do this? First, we feature some of the world's finest thinkers. Second, our videos are clear, concise, and entertaining. Progressive versus progressive competing to see who can most flamboyantly claim to be offended, to proclaim that their feelings have been hurt, or that their sensitivities have been rubbed raw, or their serenity disturbed, or their composure discombobulated. I'll fight for you! So tired of these politicians and their town hall meetings when somebody stands up and says, "I'm pregnant with quadruplets, um, I've been put on academic probation at the junior college, "and my milkman hates my guts. What are you gonna do for me?" Being a normal boy is a serious liability in today's classroom. Boys tend to be disorganized and restless. - Some have even been known to be noisy and hard to manage. - BOY: Yippee, I'm flying a plane! Sound like any boy you know? Third, we employ sophisticated social media marketing to connect to our audience. Our goal is to change minds, and just as important, to teach those who agree with our values how to make these arguments on their own so that they can also change minds. We supply the ammunition in the war of ideas. And the number of people we touch is unparalleled. In 2015, PragerU had 70 million views. You heard that right: 70 million. This year, we will surpass 100 million. That's an average of about a million unique, individual views of every single video we release, and some of our videos get far more than that. Some examples: "The Middle East Problem," an explanation of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, received over 6 million views - again, that's 6 million different computers - in 8 languages, including Arabic. "Was the Civil War About Slavery?", taught by the head of the history department at West Point, has 7.5 million views. "Don't Judge Blacks Differently," an argument for equality based on behavior and not skin color, delivered by a young black woman, has over 5 million views. And these views matter. 70% of Americans use the internet as a regular source of news. This is especially true of young people, and 60% of our viewers are under 35 years old. We're not done. There's also radio. We promote every PragerU video on my nationally syndicated radio show, heard on over 150 stations across the United States. And our relationships with other talk radio hosts, as well as other websites, bloggers, and newsmakers, expose us to an even bigger audience. Major newspapers, both in the US and internationally, refer to our videos on a regular basis. Fox News has played excerpts from our videos multiple times. And congressmen and celebrities quote PragerU videos on their social media. There's also outreach to schools. As one large website, which doesn't agree with us, wrote about this outreach, "Prager has developed an ingenious way of getting his opinions to a new kind of audience, "one harder to reach via traditional media channels." Today, over 3000 educators utilize PragerU videos as teaching supplements in their classrooms. We're also spreading the word about PragerU through our college student ambassadors program known as PragerForce. These are carefully-screened students in schools throughout America who introduce PragerU to their peers and professors. And finally, we are developing a mobile app to instantly arm people who share our values with the data they need to make persuasive arguments. With this app, our students will be one smartphone click away from stats and analyses on dozens of key issues. With our vast reach, savvy marketing, and compelling arguments, PragerU is equipping Americans, especially young ones, with the intellectual firepower they need to defend western civilization five minutes at a time. And if you aren't sure five minutes is enough to influence a mind, just think of how much you've learned during this video. I'm Dennis Prager.
Ever since Franklin Roosevelt promised Americans a New Deal in 1932, liberal politicians and pundits have insisted that the government must do more to alleviate poverty, increase economic security, and enhance the quality of life. But the word more implies there's a level of government activity that would be enough. In reality, however, there's never enough. That's because the liberal theory and practice of activist government is an endless pursuit of a goal that can't be achieved. When was the last time you heard a liberal politician say, Yeah, we solved that social ill. We're just going to close up that government agency now, zero out the budget and move on to another problem. What you hear instead is that we need more. And, more always sets the stage for still more down the road. Liberalism's lack of a limiting principle raises two questions: First, can our republic govern itself on this basis? Second, should it? My answers aremaybe. And No. Maybe we can go on, at least for a while, to continue to expand entitlement spending. We've been doing it for decades. Adjusted for inflation and population growth, government spending - federal, state, and local - was nearly seven times as large in 2014 as it was in 1948. That sounds like a perfect example of the economist's adage: if something can't go on forever, it won't. In 1948, government spending amounted to 17% - just over one-sixth - of our gross domestic product, the total value of all the goods and services produced by the American economy that year. In 2014, government spending was 32% of GDP, just under one-third. This trend puts us on a steady course to a European social democracy - one where government spends more than 50% of GDP. Europe is straining under this burden. France, for example, the third largest economy in the European Union, has stagnant growth and unemployment twice as high as America's. Even nations with stronger economies, such as Sweden and Germany, face the dilemma of welfare states around the world: the number of workers paying taxes continues to decline, while the number of beneficiaries - those who receive government benefits - continues to grow. America has the same problem. As it is, government spending on social welfare and insurance programs, the part of the budget liberals like best, is crowding out everything else. Such spending accounted for 72% of federal outlays in 2014, twice the proportion in 1969. Common sense suggests this can't go on indefinitely. Which brings us to the second question: Should America govern itself on this basis? That is, should America become like Europe? Liberals say yes. Conservatives say no. Conservatives insist that the European model is wrong for America, even if we can afford it. The key to this argument is that America's founding did not just establish a government, but defined a nation with a distinct character. Healthy skepticism of government, even when it announces the intention to use its power benevolently, is a central feature of that character. The don't tread on me spirit that animated the founding remains strong. Most Americans persist in believing that a government powerful enough to give you everything you want will also, necessarily, be powerful enough to take away everything you have - including your freedom. Conservatives believe that government power must be limited. because the alternative is unlimited government. Liberals don't share this concern. If there's a social problem, they believe the best solution is a new government program. If it fails to achieve its goal, which it invariably does, the solution is a bigger government program. More. And when does more become enough? The honest answer is never. I'm Bill Voegeli of the Claremont Institute, for Prager University.
I took America to war in Iraq. It was all me. OK, it was mostly me. I had some help from a clueless President George W. Bush and his neo-conservative puppet master, Vice President Dick Cheney. Senior White House fanatics spoon fed reporters like me cherry-picked intelligence about Iraq's alleged Weapons of Mass Destruction so that America could invade Iraq and seize its oil. None of this is true, but many Americans continue to believe it. People died. It was a war. But President Bush didn't lie us into it. The false narrative that he did is, itself, a lie and deserves to be, at last, retired. There was no shortage of mistakes about Iraq, and some of the media's prewar WMD stories were wrong, including some of mine. But so is the enduring, pernicious accusation that the Bush administration fabricated WMD intelligence to take the country to war. Before the 2003 invasion, President Bush and other senior officials cited the intelligence community's incorrect conclusions about Saddam's WMD capabilities and, on occasion, went beyond them. But relying on the mistakes of others -- completely understandable mistakes given Saddam's horrendous record -- and making errors of judgment are not the same as lying. American, European and arms-control experts, counterterrorism agents, and analysts who studied Iraq and briefed White House officials and journalists were the same people who gave me and my fellow reporters at the New York Times accurate information for years about Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda's growing threat to America. In fact, eight months before 9/11, the Times published a series of articles on that threat -- a series for which the Times staff, including me, won a Pulitzer Prize. The members of the intelligence community with whom I dealt were overwhelmingly reliable, hardworking and honest. But they were also human, and, in the aftermath of 9/11, they were very wary of ever again underestimating a terrorist threat. There's an enduring myth that policy makers pressured intelligence analysts into altering their estimates to suit the Bush administration's push to war. Yet, several thorough, bipartisan inquiries found no evidence of such pressure. What they reveal, instead, is that bad intelligence led to bad policy decisions. The 2005 commission headed by former Democratic Sen. Charles Robb and Republican Judge Laurence Silberman called the intelligence community's estimates on Iraq dead wrong. A year earlier, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence denounced such intelligence failures as the product of group think, rooted in a fear of underestimating grave threats to national security in the wake of 9/11. Will Tobey, a former deputy administrator for the National Nuclear Security Administration still fumes about the failure to see problems in the CIA's intelligence that supported Secretary of State Colin Powell's prewar speech at the United Nations about Iraq's WMD. Based partly on the CIA's assurances of strong evidence for each claim, Mr. Powell was persuaded that the case against Saddam was, in his words, rock solid. Why wouldn't he? Over the previous 15 years, none of the congressional committees routinely briefed on Iraq's WMD assessments expressed concern about bias or error. The decision to go to war in Iraq received broad support in Congress from both Republicans and Democrats. And, again for good reason. Even if the intelligence community overestimated Saddam Hussein's WMD capability, it didn't create it out of thin air. Saddam had used chemical weapons on his own people, killing thousands. He had invaded his neighbors, repeatedly. No, President Bush did not take America into a war because he was strong armed by a neoconservative cabal. As President Bush himself famously asserted, he was the decider. And no, he didn't go to war for oil. If we wanted Saddam's oil, we could have bought it. President's Bush decision to go to war was based on the information that he and his team relied on -- information that was collected by the world's top agents and analyzed by the world's top analysts, including the intelligence agencies of France, Germany and Russia, countries whose leaders did not support going to war. But they all agreed on one thing -- Saddam had and was continuing to develop WMD. Our intelligence professionals, and those of major European countries, overestimated Saddam's capabilities. Mistakes like that filter through the system -- from the White House to Congress to journalists to the public. And those mistakes impact policy. But here's the key thing to remember -- they were mistakesnot lies. I'm Judith Miller contributing editor of City Journal, for Prager University.
Well I'm not here to tell you who to vote for. But I am here to tell you who not to vote for. Don't vote for anyone who says, I'll fight for you. Because that person is full of crap and has no intention of not only fighting for you, he doesn't know who you are. He or she is just moving on to the next town where they can point at the next sap and say, I'll fight for you. I'm so tired of these politicians and their town hall meetings when somebody stands up and says, I'm pregnant with quadruplets. I've been put on academic probation at the junior college. And my milkman hates my guts. What are you going to do for me? And my answer is, Nothing. But here's the good news. We live in the United States. You can do something for you. Feel free to get a job and fight to keep it. Let me give you a really good example of people doing too much for others and us coming apart at the seams as a society. You guys remember when you were kids and you'd fake an illness and you'd stay home from school, and you'd sit there on your sofa and you'd watch daytime TV? Hey! I'm Wally Thorpe. School of Trucking! You can get into trucking too! Be a long haul trucker! Get your license! Hit the open road! Make a good living! Learn typewriter repair. Learn toaster repair. Remember all those commercials? Every single commercial was geared to somebody who was out of work but who wanted to work. Why? Well it's Tuesday. It's noon. Who's going to be home watching this TV show? People who are out of work. What do people who are out of work want to do? They want to get to work, thus they learn to drive an 18-wheeler. Now look at every commercial that's on during daytime TV. Wrongfully let go by an employer? Slip and fall in a supermarket? You can sue. Hi, I'm attorney Lance Bassman, and I'll fight for you. See? The same people that say they're going to fight for you are the same people trying to get you free crap when you won't get off your ever enlarging butt that's now melding and becoming one with your sofa. Fixing your screwed up life is not the government's job. And by the way, when does the government do a good job at fixing anything? I mean, I live in Los Angeles. We pay the most in taxes, and we get the least in education. I want the government to do stuff that I can't do. Stop a war, end a plague. That kind of stuff . Stuff involving me? Stuff involving my family? Stuff involving my community? I can handle that. Also, don't vote for the politician who says, I know it's not a level playing field. I'm going to level it for you. That's impossible. It's mathematically impossible to have a level playing field. What are we going to do about fat people being discriminated against? Some people are born with one limb shorter than the other. Other people are born with a Brillo head. There's nothing we can do about it. The government's job is to clear the playing field, not level the playing field, since it's impossible for them to level the playing field. Just clear it of all the land mines and all the barbed wire and let us get to work. And don't worry, this is a great country. The harder you work the more you score and eventually your team goes to the Super Bowl. So let's review. I'm not going to tell you who to vote for. I'll tell you who not to vote for. Don't vote for the guy who says he's going to get rid of all your problems, take care of you, and tuck your kids in at night You see, humans need challenges to overcome, just like a muscle needs resistance to grow. In a zero gravity environment an astronaut's muscles atrophy because there is no resistance. The government giving you a bunch of handouts and living your life for you is basically the equivalent of doing pushups in outer space. Look ma I can clap five times just like Rocky in between sets! Big government is like the void of space. It's massive, constantly expanding and if we immerse ourselves in it, we'll simply wither away. I'm Adam Carolla for Prager University.
Do you wish you had better control over your temper? Do the people around you, your spouse, your friends, your boyfriend or girlfriend, your children, wish you had better control over your temper? Unfair or excessive anger is a major cause of marital strife, of tensions between parents and children, and of tensions in work places. Sometimes anger is responsible for more than just tension. Road rage, for example, is implicated in hundreds of deaths and thousands of accidents each year. Of course, anger is not always wrong. Sometimes it's absolutely necessary. There is evil in the world and sometimes in our own lives. If that didn't make us angry, neither nations nor individuals would ever oppose it. Think about it for a moment: Would you want to live in a world where no one except victims felt anger toward terrorists, rapists and murderers? But that's not the sort of anger I am talking about now. I'm talking about day-to-day anger and the role an angry disposition plays in poisoning our daily lives and the lives of those around us. People with quick tempers sometimes say that they can't control their anger. But that's not true. People can't always control how they feel, but they can almost always control how they act. Let me offer an example: Imagine you're walking down the street when suddenly you're confronted by a person with a weapon demanding your money. Clearly, you're furious. But do you shout at the person? Do you curse him? Very unlikely. You speak in as calm a voice as you can, probably even in a respectful manner -- if you speak at all! We all know why we would act in such a calm way -- in order to save our life. Obviously, then, we can control our tempers when we really want to. Now there are whole courses on anger management and they undoubtedly have many ideas and suggestions. But I would like to offer one rule that will enable you to control your anger and almost guarantee that you will never say something that will lead to an irrevocable break or a permanent hurt in your relationship with another person: No matter how angry you get, restrict the expression of your anger to the incident that provoked it. This means when someone has done something wrong and has hurt you, express anger for what they did but only concerning that incident . Don't use words like always, or never. "You're always inconsiderate," "You never think before you act." What's the other person supposed to say? You're right. I am always inconsiderate. In addition to making the other person defensive -- who wouldn't become defensive when accused of always being anything bad -- your statement is untrue. No one is always inconsiderate. No one never thinks before he or she acts. That someone has done something wrong to you doesn't give you the right to lie to or about them. Also, expressing thoughts like this is destructive in another way. One of the sad and unfair consequences of anger is that people think that what you say when you're angry is what you really think. Now, it might be. But usually it isn't what you really think. It's what you are thinking at that moment. Who hasn't had some really angry and unfair thoughts about their spouse, their child, or about a good friend? No one. But most of the time we make sure not to express these angry thoughts. Because the moment we express them, it becomes hard, if not impossible, for the other person to ever forget what you've said. A medieval philosopher offered wise guidance: I can take back words I didn't say, but I can't take back words I did say. How hard is it to practice this rule? For some, it might be pretty hard. For others less so. But everyone can do it. You have to stay focused, and you have to exercise self-control. If you have issues with your temper, this might well be a life-transforming suggestion, so let me repeat it one final time. No matter how angry you get, restrict the expression of your anger to the incident that provoked it. I'm Joseph Telushkin for Prager University.
Crony capitalism. What is it? Why is it so bad? To answer these questions, let's think about good, old-fashioned capitalism. It is premised on the free exchange of goods or services between independent agents. Let's say I want to buy some cereal. Steve's Grocery is selling my brand for $4. Ted's Grocery has it for $5. I buy from Steve, which creates the most value for both me and him. Meanwhile, Ted now has an incentive to cut his costs so he can compete better. Replicate this kind of transaction billions of times a day, 365 days a year, and that is how our economy functions and grows. Or at least how it's supposed to. Now, what about crony capitalism? Let's say it's the government that wants to buy some cereal. More specifically, the House of Representatives' Committee for Cereal Acquisition is put in charge of the task. Steve still sells it for $4. Ted for $5. I buy from Steve. He's the low price man. But the Committee for Cereal Acquisition buys from Ted. Why? Because Ted lobbied the committee. Because his corporate headquarters is in the chairman's district. Because he gave more campaign contributions. Because he promised a lobbying gig to an undecided committee member who plans to retire next year. That is how crony capitalism works. And it happens all throughout the government - from defense contracting, to farm subsidies, clean energy programs, infrastructure spending, affordable housing, food stamps, Medicare, Obamacare, tax policy. You pretty much name it. Crony capitalism is there. Capitalism is moral because it is premised on a voluntary exchange between independent parties--who agree to the deal only because it creates value for everybody. Crony capitalism is immoral because one of the parties - the government - has been bought off. This creates three problems. First, it is unfair. Politicians are spending the public's money, but not for the public interest. Instead, they reward friends, supporters, or themselves. Our Constitution grants Congress the power to provide for the general welfare. Crony capitalism violates this sacred principle. Second, it is incredibly wasteful. In our cereal example, the government overpaid by going with Ted instead of Steve. That's obviously a waste of taxpayer money. In fact, it is really stealing from the taxpayer. Here's more waste. Ted had to spend money to lobby the government to get the contract. So, he didn't get all of that dollar out of the transaction. That's money that could have been spent making a better product or used in some other constructive way. Economists call this deadweight loss. And it can be substantial. Moreover, crony capitalism distorts the broader economy. In some industries - like healthcare, student loans, home mortgages, and aerospace - the government is one of the biggest purchasers of goods or services. So its politicized decisions can have wide-ranging and detrimental effects. An entire industry can become, in effect, a client of the government. When that happens its goal is not to build a better mousetrap, but to keep politicians happy. How much does crony capitalism cost society per year? It is hard to say precisely, but the number reaches into the tens of billions of dollars, maybe beyond. Third, it tempts politicians to break the law. Once politicians feel free to spend the public's money for their own political purposes, they are just a hop-skip-and-a-jump away from doing so to line their own pockets or pump up their campaign funds or both. So what can we do? Our first task is to recognize that government must have limits. Of course, there has to be a national authority to set the parameters for society; that establishes the rules of the game and enforces them. But when we expect the government to promote an industry, tinker with some sector of the economy, help some important voter group, we create the groundwork for crony capitalism and all the bad things that come with itfavoritism, waste, theft, and other forms of corruption. America's seventh President, Andrew Jackson, had a very useful perspective on this issue. There are no necessary evils in government, he said. Its evils exist only in its abuses. If it would confine itself to equal protection, and, as Heaven does its rains, shower its favors alike on the high and the low, the rich and the poor, it would be an unqualified blessing. Jackson had it right. A limited government confined to equal protection can't play favorites. Limited government. If getting rid of crony capitalism is the goal, it all starts there. I'm Jay Cost of the Weekly Standard for Prager University.
How indignant can progressives make themselves? There's a real competition going on. And it's sweeping the nation: progressive vs. progressive competing to see who can most flamboyantly claim to be offended; to proclaim that their feelings have been hurt; or that their sensitivities have been rubbed raw; or their serenity disturbed; or their composure discombobulated, by something that someone has said. Or by something they have seen. Such as a Confederate flag or a building named after Woodrow Wilson. But, actually, I think progressives are not sufficiently imaginative. There are many more things they could be indignant about. Starting with where I live - Washington, D.C. The Washington Post newspaper is -- if it will pardon the expression -- on the warpath against the name of the Washington Redskins football team. The paper says the name is racist, insulting, demeaning, insensitive, and so on. But the Washington Post takes its name from its citywhich is named for George Washington, who was not only a slave owner; he was a tobacco farmer, which some progressives probably think is almost as awful. Surely the Post should change its name -- and should demand that the nation's capital be renamed. Perhaps as Eleanor Roosevelt City. Obviously it cannot be named for her husband -- he who ordered the internment in concentration camps of 117,000 persons of Japanese descent, two-thirds of whom were native-born American citizens. And there are hundreds of other towns, counties, parks, and schools named for Washington. Such as Washington and Lee University. Good grief: The name is double hate speech: Robert E. Lee actually commanded the Confederate Army. Washington is not the only name progressives should scrutinize. The word "Oklahoma" is a compound of two words from the Choctaw language - words meaning "red" and "people." If it is intolerable to have a football team named "Redskins," it must be worse to have a state named "Red People. But let's get back to cleansing America of all mentions of historic figures who were less than perfect progressives. On the Tidal Basin in Washington there is a memorial for the slave-owning Thomas Jefferson. This memorial should have a "trigger warning" carved into its marble. Jacksonville, Florida, and Jackson, Mississippi, and many other places and things, are named for Andrew Jackson, the tormentor of Native Americans. All must be renamed for someone who was saintly, as progressives understand saintliness. And speaking of saints: Surely good progressives are traumatized by the names of St. Louis, St. Petersburg, San Diego, San Antonio - not to mention Corpus Christie. Progressives like it when courts rule that non-denominational prayers at high school graduations violate the separation of church and state. Why, then, don't they consider it a constitutional outrage that there are cities named for religious figures? Including Nancy Pelosi's San Francisco. That city is - if progressives will pardon the expression - the Vatican of American progressivism. Progressives should demand that all such cities be renamed for progressive saints. Tony Bennett could sing, "I left my heart in Nancy Pelosi City." Or we could give these places names that give no offense because they have no meaning. Joseph Knippenberg is an American rarity - a sensible professor. His droll suggestion is that we spare progressives from discomfort by giving cities and buildings the kind of meaningless names that are given to car models - names such as Acura and Elantra and Sentra. And what about the state flag of hyper-progressive Massachusetts? Its flag depicts a Native American holding - brace yourself - a bow and arrow. A weapon. Surely progressivism's sensitivity police cannot permit this depiction. It reinforces the hurtful stereotype of Native Americans as less than perfectly peaceful people. Minnesota, too, should hang its head in shame. Its state seal depicts a pioneer tilling a field, and a Native American riding away -- and carrying a spear. Any progressive can see that this seal conveys multiple racial slurs. The spear - another weapon, another stereotype of Native Americans as violent. The Native American, riding away, is stigmatized as nomadic, hence unproductive. Whereas the farmer, who is white, is industrious. So, the seal communicates subliminal slander - the coded message of white superiority. Who knew that Minnesotans, who have voted Democratic in ten consecutive elections since 1972, embrace white supremacy? I could go on, but you get the picture. Still, you should feel sorry for the progressive sensitivity enforcers. Those who constantly find reason to take offense are rarely happy people. The problem, however, is that such people make almost everyone else miserable, too. I'm George Will for Prager University.
Do electric cars really help the environment? President Obama thinks so. So does Leonardo DiCaprio. And many others. The argument goes like this: Regular cars run on gasoline, a fossil fuel that pumps CO2 straight out of the tailpipe and into the atmosphere. Electric cars run on electricity. They don't burn any gasoline at all. No gas; no CO2. In fact, electric cars are often advertised as creating zero emissions. But do they really? Let's take a closer look. First, there's the energy needed to produce the car. More than a third of the lifetime carbon-dioxide emissions from an electric car comes from the energy used make the car itself, especially the battery. The mining of lithium, for instance, is not a green activity. When an electric car rolls off the production line, it's already been responsible for more than 25,000 pounds of carbon-dioxide emission. The amount for making a conventional car: just 16,000 pounds. But that's not the end of the CO2 emissions. Because while it's true that electric cars don't run on gasoline, they do run on electricity, which, in the US is often produced by another fossil fuel -- coal. As green venture capitalist Vinod Khosla likes to point out, "Electric cars are coal-powered cars." The most popular electric car, the Nissan Leaf, over a 90,000-mile lifetime will emit 31 metric tons of CO2, based on emissions from its production, its electricity consumption at average U.S. fuel mix and its ultimate scrapping. A comparable Mercedes CDI A160 over a similar lifetime will emit just 3 tons more across its production, diesel consumption and ultimate scrapping. The results are similar for a top-line Tesla, the king of electric cars. It emits about 44 tons, which is only 5 tons less than a similar Audi A7 Quattro. So throughout the full life of an electric car, it will emit just three to five tons less CO2. In Europe, on its European Trading System, it currently costs $7 to cut one ton of CO2. So the entire climate benefit of an electric car is about $35. Yet the U.S. federal government essentially provides electric car buyers with a subsidy of up to $7,500. Paying $7,500 for something you could get for $35 is a very poor deal. And that doesn't include the billions more in federal and state grants, loans and tax write-offs that go directly to battery and electric-car makers. The other main benefit from electric cars is supposed to be lower pollution. But remember Vinod Khosla's observation "Electric cars are coal-powered cars." Yes, it might be powered by coal, proponents will say, but unlike the regular car, coal plant emissions are far away from the city centers where most people live and where damage from air pollution is greatest. However, new research in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found that while gasoline cars pollute closer to home, coal-fired power actually pollutes more -- a lot more. How much more? Well, the researchers estimate that if the U.S. has 10% more gasoline cars in 2020, 870 more people will die each year from the additional air pollution. If the U.S. has 10% more electric vehicles powered on the average U.S. electricity mix, 1,617 more people will die every year from the extra pollution. Twice as many. But of course electricity from renewables like solar and wind creates energy for electric cars without CO2. Won't the perceived rapid ramp-up of these renewables make future electric cars much cleaner? Unfortunately, this is mostly wishful thinking. Today, the U.S. gets 14% of its electric power from renewables. In 25 years, Obama's Energy Information Administration estimates that number will have gone up just 3 percentage points to 17%. Meanwhile, those fossil fuels that generate 65% of U.S. electricity today will still generate about 64% of it in 2040. While electric-car owners may cruise around feeling virtuous, the reality is that the electric car cuts almost no CO2, costs taxpayers a fortune, and, surprisingly, generates more air pollution than traditional gasoline cars. I'm Bjrn Lomborg, president of the Copenhagen Consensus Center.
When it comes to U.S. foreign policy, Americans must sometimes feel like Goldilocks in the three bears' house. The porridge that was President George W. Bush's freedom agenda -- promising democracy for everyone from Karachi to Casablanca -- was too hot. The mush constituting President Barack Obama's foreign policy -- deeply ambivalent about the uses of U.S. power -- is too cold. How can the U.S. enforce basic global norms of decency, deter enemies, and reassure friends without losing sight of our national interests? There is a proven model that has nothing to do with foreign policy. It has to do with policing our toughest inner cities. In 1990, New York City had a homicide rate of more than 30 murders for every 100,000 people. By 2012, it had fallen to a rate of 5 per 100,000. A similar, if slightly less dramatic story, unfolded in every other major U.S. city -- despite the fact that many of the factors often cited to explain crime -- bad schools, broken homes, poverty, the prevalence of guns, unemployment -- remained largely the same. What happened? In 1982, George Kelling, a criminologist at Rutgers, and James Q. Wilson, a political scientist at Harvard, wrote an essay titled Broken Windows. It had long been known that if one broken window wasn't replaced, it wouldn't be long before all the other windows were broken too. Why? Because, they wrote, one unrepaired broken window is a signal that no one cares, and so breaking more windows costs nothing. Municipalities that adopted policing techniques based on the broken-windows theory -- the strict enforcement of laws against petty crimes and policing by foot patrols -- registered sharp drops in crime and major improvements in people's quality of life. Could it be that this broken windows approach would work in our increasingly disorderly world? Absolutely. But, of course, only if the approach is applied. After the dictator of Syria, Bashar al-Assad, used sarin nerve gas to murder more than 1,000 people near Damascus in August 2013, President Obama warned that if we fail to act, the Assad regime will see no reason to stop using chemical weapons. And after Russia seized Crimea in 2014, he denounced the Kremlin for challenging truths that only a few weeks ago seemed self-evident, that in the 21st century, the borders of Europe cannot be redrawn with force. Two broken windows. Two eloquent warnings. Yet the warnings didn't amount to much. Bashar Assad stayed in power, and continued to use chemical weapons. And Russia's invasion of Ukraine carried on. This is how we arrive at a broken-windows world: Rules are invoked but not enforced. And when rules aren't enforced, more rules will be broken. One window breaks, then others. How do we arrest the slide into a world of international disorder? As I write in my book, America in Retreat, we do it by invoking a broken windows foreign policy that sharply punishes violations of basic geopolitical norms, such as the use of chemical weapons, by swiftly and precisely targeting the perpetrators of those attacks. The emphasis should be on short, mission-specific, punitive police actions, not on open-ended occupations with the goal of redeeming broken societies, as was tried in Iraq. A broken-windows foreign policy doesn't try to run every bad guy out of town. Nor does it demand that the U.S. put out every geopolitical fire. But it does prevent big fires and it does punish the worst dictators. Just one cruise-missile strike against just one radio tower in Rwanda during the 1994 genocide could have helped to prevent the Hutu killers from broadcasting instructions for murdering Tutsis, potentially saving tens of thousands of innocent lives -- and at minimal cost. Similarly, at a minimal cost to America, US led bomb strikes by NATO were decisive in lifting the seige of Sarajevo in 1995, turning the tide of the war in the former Yugoslavia against Serbian dictator Slobodan Milosevic. Perhaps it is time for a strategy that enshrines the principle that preventing tragedy should enjoy greater moral legitimacy than reacting to it. I'm Bret Stephens.
Every year men spend billions of dollars to look at women with little clothing on -- such as the annual Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue -- or with no clothing on -- such as on Internet sites and in so-called men's magazines. Women, on the other hand, spend virtually nothing to see unclothed men. Why? Some say that the reason is that men are socialized into viewing women as sex objects and that women are socialized into not viewing men as sex objects. But if that's true, how do these people explain gay men? They are as aroused by pictures of naked men as heterosexual men are aroused by pictures of naked women. Obviously, then, it's not socialization. It's that men are programmed by nature -- not by society -- to respond sexually to the visual. This is an area in which men are so different than women it's probably impossible -- no, not probably, just outright impossible -- for a woman to truly understand. Of course women find some men attractive. And of course a woman can have an intense reaction to seeing a very appealing man. But there's still no comparison. The visual alone arouses men. It takes far more to arouse a woman than seeing naked men. If that's all it took, most husbands would walk around the house naked whenever possible -- or at least every time they wanted sex. And the average heterosexual man is excited countless times a day simply by seeing women -- in person, on billboards, in magazines, on television, and even in his imagination. This is not the case for women. Yes, there are some male strip shows for women. But few women ever go, and the few who do attend them in groups, a girls' night out. And for every one of those shows there are probably ten thousand female strip shows for males, most of whom attend alone, not as a participant in a guys' night out. Let's be honest. There is no magazine featuring men's legs for women to look at and get aroused by. But there are websites and magazines of women's legs for men. And are women paying to view topless men? Men pay good money to look at topless women. Again, that doesn't mean women never get turned on by merely looking at some men. Of course they do. But it's only some men -- on rare occasion a stranger, and more usually a celebrity. Men get turned on by any sight of female flesh on almost any female. The effect of the visual in men is so powerful that it even amazes men. A man came over to me after hearing me lecture on male sexuality and said: I've got a story to tell you. I was in front of a department store and in the window was a seated mannequin. I couldn't believe it, but I found myself looking up her skirt. Here was a perfectly normal, responsible man -- who found himself looking up a skirt on an inanimate object shaped like a woman. That's how instinctive it is for men to look at female flesh. It's perfectly understandable that women cannot fully relate to this. But if a woman wants to understand male sexuality, the first thing she has to understand is the power of the visual. That's why you see ads on billboards, on TV, and in magazines for every sort of product a man might buy accompanied by a scantily clad woman -- or, sometimes, just part of her. I recall a famous liquor ad that showed a woman's legs and a bottle of tequila. No face, just beautiful legs. Would you ever see an ad showing men's legs? People would laugh; it would be considered absurd. An ad with women's legs is not absurd - it's alluring. None of this is in any way meant to excuse inappropriate male behavior. Men must always control themselves. But to deny the power of the visual on men is like denying that the earth is round. I'm Dennis Prager.
I'm going to argue for the existence of God from the premise that moral good and evil really exist. They are not simply a matter of personal taste. Not merely substitutes for "I like" and "I don't like." Before I begin, let's get one misunderstanding out of the way. My argument does not mean that atheists can't be moral. Of course atheists can behave morally, just as theists can behave immorally. Let's start then with a question about good and evil: Where do good and evil come from?" Atheists typically propose a few possibilities. Among these are evolution, reason, conscience, human nature, and utilitarianism. I will show you that none of these can be the ultimate source of morality. Why not from evolution? Because any supposed morality that is evolving can change. If it can change for the good or the bad, there must be a standard above these changes to judge them as good or bad. For most of human history, more powerful societies enslaved weaker societies, and prospered. That's just the way it was and no one questioned it. Now we condemn slavery. But based on a merely evolutionary model, that is an ever-changing view of morality, who is to say that it won't be acceptable again one day? Slavery was once accepted, but it was not therefore acceptable. And if you can't make that distinction between accepted and acceptable, you can't criticize slavery. And if you can make that distinction you are admitting to objective morality. What about Reasoning? While reasoning is a powerful tool to help us discover and understand morality, it cannot be the source of morality. For example, criminals use reasoning to plan a murder -- without their reason telling them that murder is wrong. And was it reasoning -- or something higher than reasoning -- that led those Gentiles who risked their lives to save Jews during the Holocaust? The answer is obvious: it was something higher than reasoning -- because risking one's life to save a stranger was a very unreasonable thing to do. Nor can conscience alone be the source of morality. Every person has his own conscience and some people apparently have none. Heinrich Himmler, chief of the brutal Nazi SS, successfully appealed to his henchmen's consciences to help them do the right' thing in murdering and torturing millions of Jews and others. How can you say your conscience is right and Himmler's wrong if conscience alone is the source of morality? The answer is you can't. Some people say human nature' is the ultimate source of morality. But human nature can lead us to do all sorts of reprehensible things. In fact, human nature is the reason we need morality. Our human nature leads some of us to do real evil, and leads all of us to be selfish, unkind, petty and egocentric. I doubt you would want to live in a world where human nature was given free reign. Utilitarianism is the claim that what is morally right is determined by whatever creates the greatest happiness for the greatest number.' But to return to our slavery example: if ninety percent of the people will get great benefit from enslaving the other ten percent, would that make slavery right? According to utilitarianism it would. We've seen where morality can't come from. Now let's see where it does come from. What are moral laws? Unlike the laws of physics or the laws of mathematics, which tell us what is, the laws of morality tell us what ought to be. But like physical laws, they direct and order something. And that something is right human behavior. But since morality doesn't exist physically -- there are no moral or immoral atoms, or cells or genes -- its cause has to be something that exists apart from the physical world. That thing must therefore be above nature -- or super-natural. The very existence of morality proves the existence of something beyond nature and beyond man. Just as a design suggests a designer, moral commands suggest a moral commander. Moral Laws must come from a moral lawgiver. Well, that sounds pretty much like what we know as God. The consequence of this argument is that whenever you appeal to morality you are appealing to God whether you know it or not; you're talking about something religious, even if you think you're an atheist. I'm Peter Kreeft, professor of Philosophy at Boston College, for Prager University.
Is racism still a major problem in America? President Barack Obama certainly thinks so. He said that racism is in our DNA. Really? If racism is in our DNA, doesn't that mean it's immutable, unchangeable? But America has changed -- and dramatically so. In 1960, 60% of Americans said they would never vote for a black president. Almost 50 years later, the black man who said racism is in America's DNA was elected president, and four years later re-elected. That's only the most obvious example of racial progress. There are many others. Take inter-racial marriage. As William H. Frey of the Brookings Institution wrote, Sociologists have traditionally viewed multiracial marriage as a benchmark for the ultimate stage of assimilation of a particular group into society. Black-white marriages were still illegal in 16 states until 1967. And a 1958 Gallup poll found that only 4% of Americans approved of black-white marriages. Today that number is 87%. In 1960, of all marriages by blacks, only 1.7 percent were black-white. Today, it's 12 percent and rising. Now what about racial profiling and abuse of blacks by police? Doesn't that prove that racism remains a major problem? In the summer of 2014, Ferguson, Missouri became ground zero for this accusation when a white policeman shot and killed an unarmed black teenager. While a Department of Justice investigation of the incident cleared the officer of any wrongdoing, it did accuse the city's police department of racial bias. But what was the Justice Department report's most headline grabbing stat? The gap between the percentage of blacks living in Ferguson -- 67% -- and the percentage of those stopped by police for traffic violation who are black -- 85%. An 18 point discrepancy. Racism, right? Not so fast. Blacks comprise 25% of New York City, but account for 55% of those stopped for traffic offenses -- a 30-point discrepancy, far bigger than that of Ferguson. Why isn't the NYPD, a department that is now majority minority, considered even more institutionally racist than the Ferguson PD? The answer is you cannot have an honest discussion about police conduct without an honest discussion of black crime. Though blacks are 13% of the population, they commit 50% of the nation's homicides, and almost always the victim is another black person, just as most white homicides are against other whites. In 2012, according to the Center for Disease Control, police killed 123 blacks, while, by the way, killing over twice that many whites. But that same year blacks killed over 6,000 people -- again, mostly other blacks. What about traffic stops? Unlike when responding to dispatch calls, police officers exercise more discretion when it comes to traffic stops. Therefore racist cops can have a field day when it comes to traffic stops, right? Actually, no. The National Institute of Justice is the research agency of the Department of Justice. In 2013, the National Institute of Justice published a study called "Race, Trust and Police Legitimacy." Three out of four black drivers admitted that they were stopped by the police for a "legitimate reason." Blacks, compared to whites, were on average more likely to commit speeding and other traffic offenses. The Institute wrote, Seatbelt usage is chronically lower among black drivers. If a law enforcement agency aggressively enforces seatbelt violations, police will stop more black drivers." The NIJ's conclusion? These numerical disparities result from "differences in offending" -- in other words, not because of racism. Similarly, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration also found that blacks violate traffic laws at higher rates than whites -- in every offense, whether it's driving without a license, not wearing a seat belt, not using a child safety seat or speeding. Is there still racism in America? Of course, there is. But racism is not in America's DNA. Recent history and a lot of research and data prove it. As liberal Harvard sociologist Orlando Patterson said, America, is now the least racist white-majority society in the world; has a better record of legal protections of minorities than any other society, white or black; offers more opportunities to a greater number of black persons than any other society, including all of those of Africa." Patterson, by the way, is black. I'm Larry Elder for Prager University.
I'm always telling my daughters stories from when I was a kid. By comparison, the world of my youth was rougher and meaner than the world that kids grow up in today. So, here's my question: Did this rougher and meaner world better prepare me to be a well-adjusted, happy adult? I say yes. When I was a kid, you could say we were less sensitive about a lot of things. I mean, just look at the commercials we watched. We had The Frito Bandito, the cartoon spokesman for Fritos. He was a three and a half foot tall Mexican thief! Can you imagine pitching that at an ad agency today? OKThe Frito Bandito? Alright Phil, you don't work here anymore. Yeah, you gotta go clear out your desk right now. Some were violent. Hawaiian Punch? Every commercial was the same. A cartoon Hawaiian character walks up to an unsuspecting cartoon tourist and says, Hey -- how about a nice Hawaiian Punch?! Sure! says the tourist, which gets him punched directly in the face. We all thought that was hilarious. Kids had to be tougher then, too. An occasional playground fight was expected. And as for teasing? My mom had a remedy for that. Sticks and stones may break my bones but names will never hurt me. She used to say that all the time, one of the seemingly endless adages she had at her disposal to deal with any of life's problems. But I think long and hard about the practical applications that statement had on my life. That's true, I thought, if someone punches you in the chest it hurts no matter what, but with words, it all depends on how you think about it. You could actually choose whether or not to be hurt! You can't choose whether or not a punch hurts. But you can choose whether or not words hurt. That was huge. Even though it had been repeated ad nauseam for generations, Sticks and Stones really was a powerful bit of philosophy to a kid. That's one of the great things about being a parent -- you can spout clichs til the cows come home and yet, to your child, it's all new. You come off as one of the great thinkers in Western Culture. But does anyone really say Sticks and Stones anymore? I doubt there is a grammar school teacher today who is even allowed to utter that phrase. They're much more likely to warn against the ever present danger of hate speech or triggers or hurting people's feelings. This is done in the name of teaching children to respect each other. It begins innocently enough by trying to eradicate teasing, but it continues into middle and high school, where there's no greater sin than offending someone's personal or cultural sensitivity. We've seen what used to be called Great Books banned because of fear of offending. That would not have even occurred to us years ago! Of course, how could the physical abuse in The Great Gatsby harm us in high school when we spent our childhood watching Jerry the mouse staple gun Tom the Cat's tongue to the wall? How could reading an honest depiction of racial attitudes in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn harm us when we sang Ai yi yi yi! along with the Frito Bandito, or Fat kids, skinny kids, kids who climb on rocks; Tough kids! Sissy kids! -- they said Sissy kids -- Even kids with Chicken Pox! We sang that along with the Armour hot dog kids on our TV sets. People look back and some feel ashamed that teasing was expected in childhood, and stereotypes were commonplace in our culture, but was growing up in that environment worse than the hyper-sensitive culture we live in now? I look at the rough and tumble of childhood, and the process of learning to deal with bullying and being insulted, as a process of inoculation. After each instance of being offended, and then repeating my mother's sticks and stones philosophy, it was like a vaccine that built up my immune system. Eventually you're resistant. And often you weren't even aware it was happening! I can't imagine my college-aged self, living in fear of microagressions. Yet, today there are full-time campus administrators whose job involves scrubbing the campus curriculum and social life of anything that might offend anyone. And these are college students -- ostensible adults, headed into the job market I don't want to offend anyone with a microaggression if they're holding a scalpel! I try to laugh it off. I don't want my outrage to match theirs. The best thing I can do is tell my stories to my kids, and remind them that Sticks and stones may break their bones, but names will never hurt them. They think I wrote it. I'm Tom Shillue for Prager University.
One of the most important differences between the Left and the Right is how each regards the role and the size of the government. The Left believes that the state should be the most powerful force in society. Among many other things, the government should be in control of educating every child; should provide all health care; and should regulate often to the minutest detail how businesses conduct their business -- in Germany, for instance, the government legislates the time of day stores have to close. In short, there should ideally be no power that competes with Government. Not parents, not businesses, not private schools, not religious institutions; not even the individual human conscience. Conservatives, on the other hand, believe the government's role in society should be limited to absolute necessities such as national defense and to being the resource of last resort to help citizens who cannot be helped by family, by community, or by religious and secular charities. Conservatives understand that as governments grow in size and power, the following will inevitably happen: 1. There will be ever-increasing amounts of corruption. Power and money breed corruption. People in government will sell government influence for personal and political gain. And people outside government will seek to buy influence and favors. In Africa and Latin America, government corruption has been the single biggest factor holding nations back from progressing. 2. Individual liberty will decline. With a few exceptions such as an unrestricted right to abortion, individual liberty is less important to the Left than to the Right. This is neither an opinion nor a criticism. It is simple logic. The more control the government has over people's lives, the less liberty people have. 3. Countries with ever expanding governments will either reduce the size of their government or eventually collapse economically. Every welfare state ultimately becomes a Ponzi Scheme, relying on new payers to pay previous payers; and when it runs out of the new payers, the scheme collapses. All the welfare states of the world, including wealthy European countries, are already experiencing this problem to varying degrees. 4. In order to pay for an ever-expanding government, taxes are constantly increased. But at a given level of taxation, the society's wealth producers will either stop working, work less, hire fewer people, or move their business out of the state or out of the country. 5. Big government produces big deficits and ever increasing -- and ultimately unsustainable -- debt. This, too, is only logical. The more money the state hands out, the more money people will demand from the state. No recipient of free money has ever said, Thank you. I have enough. Unless big governments get smaller, they will all eventually collapse under their own weight -- with terrible consequences socially as well as economically. 6. The bigger the government, the greater the opportunities for doing great evil. The twentieth century was the most murderous century in recorded history. And who did all this killing? Big governments. Evil individuals without power can do only so much harm. But when evil individuals take control of a big government, the amount of harm they can do is essentially unlimited. The Right fears Big Government. The Left fears Big Business. But Coca-Cola can't break into your house or confiscate your wealth -- only Big Government can do that. As irresponsible as any Big Business has ever been, it is only Big Government that can build concentration camps and commit genocide. 7. Big government eats away at the moral character of a nation. People no longer take care of other people. After all, they know the government will do that. That's why Americans give far more of their money and volunteer far more of their time to charity than do Europeans at the same economic level. Without the belief in an ever-expanding government, there is no left. Without a belief in limited government, there is no right. I'm Dennis Prager.
A fundamental difference between Left and Right concerns how each assesses public policies. The Right asks, Does it do good? The Left is more likely to ask a different question. Take the minimum wage, for example. In 1987, the New York Times editorialized against any minimum wage. The title of the editorial said it all -- The Right Minimum Wage: $0.00. There's a virtual consensus among economists, wrote the Times editorial, that the minimum wage is an idea whose time has passed. Raising the minimum wage by a substantial amount would price working people out of the job marketWhy did the New York Times editorialize against the minimum wage? Because it asked the question: Does it do good? But 27 years later, the New York Times editorial page wrote the very opposite of what it had written in 1987, and called for a major increase in the minimum wage. In that time, the Times editorial page had moved further and further left and was now preoccupied not with the question, "does it do good?" -- but with the question, "does it feel good?" And it feels good to raise poor people's minimum wage. A second example is affirmative action. Study after study -- and, more importantly, common sense and facts -- has shown the negative effects that race-based affirmative action has had on many black students. Lowering college admissions standards for black applicants has ensured a number of awful results. Just to cite one, more black students fail to graduate college. Why? Because too many have been admitted to a college that demands more academic rigor than they are prepared for. Rather than attend a school that matches their academic skills, a school where they might thrive, they too often fail at the more demanding school that lowered its standards to admit them. It's clear that supporters of race-based affirmative action ask, "Does it feel good? rather than, Does it do good? A third example is pacifism and other forms of peace activism. Many people on the Left have a soft spot for pacifism -- the belief that killing another human being is always wrong. Not all leftists are pacifists, but pacifism almost always emanates from the Left, and just about all leftists support peace activism, peace studies, and whatever else contains the word peace. The Right, on the other hand, while just as desirous of peace as the Left -- what conservative parent wants their child to die in battle? -- knows that pacifism and most peace activists increase the chances of war, not peace. Nothing guarantees the triumph of evil like refusing to fight it. Great evil is therefore never defeated by peace activists, but by superior military might. The Allied victory in World War II is an obvious example. And violent Islamists today need to be killed before they behead, enslave, and torture more innocents. Supporters of pacifism, peace studies, American nuclear disarmament, and American military withdrawal from countries in which it has fought do not ask, Does it do good?" Because it almost never does good. Did the total withdrawal of America from Iraq do good? Of course not. It led to the rise of Islamic State with its mass murder and torture. Did the American withdrawal from Vietnam do good? No. It led to the violent Communist takeover of South Vietnam. On the other hand, because American troops did not leave South Korea, Japan, and Germany, those countries have become three of the most prosperous and free countries in the world. So, then, why do liberals support a higher minimum wage if it doesn't do good? Because it makes them feel good about themselves: We liberals, unlike conservatives, care about the poor. Why do liberals support race-based affirmative action? For the same reason. It makes liberals feel good about themselves. They appear to be righting the wrongs of historical racism. And, the same holds true for left-wing peace activism. It's nice to think of oneself as a peace activist. All this helps to explain why young people are so much more likely to be liberal than conservative. They haven't lived long enough to really know what does good. But they do know what feels good. As society moves further and further to the left, so does the preoccupation with feeling good over doing good. The world is getting worse and worse, but many people are feeling better and better about themselves while it does. I'm Dennis Prager.
The Left and the Right view America and its history very differently. Conservatives view America as President Abraham Lincoln viewed it -- as the Last Best Hope of Earth. While acknowledging America's flaws, conservatives regard America as the best society ever created -- giving more people of more backgrounds more freedom, more opportunity, and more affluence than any other society -- and doing more good for more people in other countries than any society in history. The Left, on the other hand, sees America as having been, and continuing to be, a very flawed country, morally no better than many, and morally inferior to many. The Left's view is that America was founded by rich white males who were intent on protecting their race, their wealth, and in many cases, their slaves. America was and remains sexist, intolerant, xenophobic, and bigoted; a country of unacceptable material inequality, where the superrich and big corporations have far too much power and influence. The further left one goes, the more negative the assessment of America. Here's a telling example. On my radio show, I once dialogued with Howard Zinn, arguably the most influential American historian of the second half of the twentieth century. Here is one part of our dialogue: Professor Zinn said: If people knew history, they would scoff atthe idea that the United States is a force for the betterment of humanity. When I said that America has done more good for humanity than any other country, Professor Zinn responded: America has probably [done] more bad than good. For the Left, the moral flaws in American history are enormous, but all the unique good America has done both in America and abroad is minimized or ignored. Take the example of slavery. This terrible institution is the most widely cited proof of American evil. The problem with that judgment, however, is that every civilization in world history, even including African societies, practiced slavery -- often on a far larger scale than America did. But there are two other questions about slavery that must be asked in order to make a moral judgment about America: The first is: Which societies were the first to abolish slavery? Since all societies had slavery, that is a far more important question to ask than who had slaves. It turns out that all the societies that first abolished slavery were rooted in the Jewish and Christian Bibles and among them was the United States. The second question that needs to be answered is this: Was America morally better than other societies in just about every other regard? And the answer is overwhelmingly yes. America gradually became the least racist, least xenophobic country in the world. In no country do people of every race and ethnicity become accepted as full members of the society as do immigrants to America. And no country in history has fought for the liberty of others as much as America has. That is why, for example, 37,000 Americans died in Korea, a country that offered America no economic gain. The purpose was to protect Koreans from Communist tyranny. Today South Korea, where American troops are still stationed, is one of the wealthiest and freest countries in Asia. Meanwhile North Korea, the part of the Korean peninsula that America did not succeed in liberating, is the least free and poorest country on earth. Without America, people around the world would suffer from far more tyranny, enslavement, and genocide. The countries where American troops have remained long after combat ceased -- Germany, Japan, and South Korea -- have prospered economically and morally. Countries that America abandoned -- such as Vietnam and Iraq -- experienced mass murder and other horrors. The Left, however, views nearly all of America's wars since 1945 as expressions of superpower imperialism. Days before the 2008 American presidential election, the Democratic candidate, then-Senator Barack Obama, announced: We are five days away from fundamentally transforming the United States of America. Exactly so. The Left wants to fundamentally transform America; the Right doesn't. Conservatives want to conserve America's unique greatness and improve it where necessary, but not transform it. If America is fundamentally transformed, it will not become better than other nations. It will become like other nations. I'm Dennis Prager.
At the core of left-wing thought is a denial of painful realities, the denial of what the French call les faits de la vie, facts of life. Conservatives, on the other hand, are all too aware of the painful realities of life, and base many of their positions on them. One example of this left-right difference is the differing attitudes toward human nature and responsibility for evil. When liberals blame violent crime on poverty, one reason they do is that ever since the Enlightenment the Left has posited that human nature is good. So, then, when people do bad things to other people, the Left argues that some outside forces -- usually poverty and, in the case of non-white criminals, racism -- are responsible, not human nature. Why? Because people on the Left find it too painful to look reality in the eye and acknowledge that human nature is deeply flawed. Another fact of life that the Left finds too painful to acknowledge is the existence of profound differences between men and women. There is no other explanation for the denial of what has been obvious to every previous generation in history -- that men and women are inherently different. This denial is certainly not the result of scientific inquiry. The more science learns about the male brain and the female brain, not to mention male and female hormones, the more it confirms important built-in differences between the sexes. Yet many people, influenced by left-wing thought, believe that girls are as happy to play with trucks as are boys, and boys are as happy to play with dolls and tea sets as are girls. Why do they believe such silliness? Because acknowledging many of those differences is painful. For example, feminists and others on the Left do not want to acknowledge that men are far more capable of having emotionally meaningless sex than women. Therefore, feminism has taught generations of young women that they are just as capable of enjoying emotionless sex with many partners as are men. The fact is that the great majority of women are deeply dissatisfied with the hook up culture and yearn to bond with a man even more than they yearn for professional success. But feminism came up with the famous and false phrase, A woman without a man is like a fish without a bicycle to counter the painful reality that most women feel incomplete without a man in their life -- just as, I might add, most men feel incomplete without a woman. Ironically, however, most men have no trouble acknowledging this. This is what the notion of Political Incorrectness is all about. The very definition of Politically Incorrect is a truth that people on the Left find too painful to acknowledge -- and therefore do not want expressed. To cite yet another example, why are many young black males in prison? The reason is too painful for the Left to acknowledge and therefore it is politically incorrect to say it: Young black males commit a disproportionate amount of violent crime. And why are there speech codes on virtually all college campuses? Because the Left doesn't want to hear facts or opinions that cause them pain. That's why the Left developed what it calls trigger warnings. A trigger warning, as defined by the Oxford Dictionary, is a statement at the start of a piece of writing, video, etc. alerting the reader or viewer to the fact that it contains potentially distressing material. That's why the Left constantly speaks about being made uncomfortable and about feeling offended. Being made uncomfortable or feeling offended, is, after all, painful. Take the left-wing bumper sticker idea, War Is not the Answer. The painful truth is that war is often the only answer to great evil. Nazi death camps were liberated by soldiers fighting a war, not by peace activists or by peaceful dialogue with the German regime. But having to acknowledge the moral necessity of war is too painful a truth for many on the Left. One might say that Leftism appeals to those who wish to remain innocent. Growing up and facing the fact that life is messy, difficult and painful is increasingly a conservative point of view. I'm Dennis Prager.
A major difference between the Right and the Left concerns the way each seeks to improve society. Conservatives believe that the way to a better society is almost always through the moral improvement of the individual -- by each person doing battle with his or her own weaknesses and flaws. It is true that in violent and evil societies such as Fascist, Communist, or Islamist tyrannies the individual must be preoccupied with battling outside forces. Almost everywhere else, though, certainly in a free and decent country such as America, the greatest battle of the individual must be with inner forces -- that is, with his or her moral failings. The Left, on the other hand, believes that the way to a better society is almost always through doing battle with society's moral failings. Thus, in America, the Left concentrates its efforts on combatting sexism, racism, intolerance, xenophobia, homophobia, Islamophobia, and the many other evils that the Left believes permeate American society. One important consequence of this Left-Right distinction is that those on the Left are far more preoccupied with politics than those on the Right. Since the Left is so much more interested in fixing society than in fixing the individual, politics inevitably becomes the vehicle for societal improvement. That's why whenever the term activist is used, we almost always assume that the term refers to someone on the Left. Another consequence of this Left-Right difference is that, since conservatives believe society is changed one person at a time, they accept that change happens gradually. This isn't fast enough for the Left, which is always and everywhere focused on social revolution. An excellent example of this was a statement by the then-presidential candidate Barack Obama, just days before his first election in 2008. To a rapturous audience, he declared: We are five days away from fundamentally transforming the United States of America. Conservatives not only have no interest in fundamentally transforming the United States of America, they are strongly opposed to doing so. Conservatives understand that fundamentally transforming any society that isn't fundamentally bad -- not to mention transforming what is one of the most decent societies in history -- can only make the society worse. Conservatives believe that America can be improved, but should not be transformed, let alone fundamentally transformed. The Founders of the United States recognized that the transformation that every generation must work on is the moral transformation of each citizen. Thus, character development was at the core of both child rearing and of young people's education -- from elementary school through college. As John Adams, the second president, said: Our Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other. And in the words of Benjamin Franklin: Only a virtuous people are capable of freedom. Why is that? Because freedom requires self-control. The freer the society, the more self-control is necessary. If the majority of people don't control themselves, the state -- meaning an ever more powerful government -- will have to control them. From the founding of the United States until the 1960s, schools -- and parents -- concentrated on character education. But, with the ascent of left-wing ideas, character education has all but disappeared from American schools. Instead, children are taught not to focus on their flaws but on America's. Social issues have replaced character education. An example is a new K-12 science curriculum, the Next Generation of Science Standards, which will teach young Americans -- starting in kindergarten -- about global warming. And when they get to college, American young people will be taught about the need to fight economic inequality, white privilege, and the alleged rape culture on their campuses. Ironically, if there really is a rape culture that permeates American college campuses, the only reason would have to be that there is so little character education in our schools, or for that matter, at home. Fathers and religion, historically the two primary conveyers of self-control, are nonexistent in the lives of millions of American children. We are now producing vast numbers of Americans who are passionate about fixing America while doing next to nothing about fixing their own character. The problem, however, is that you can't make society better unless you first make its people better. I'm Dennis Prager.
There are two views of the Israeli Military -- what you hear in most of the media, and the truth. I'm going to tell you the truth. I was the Commander of British Forces in Afghanistan. I have fought in combat zones around the world including Northern Ireland, Bosnia, Macedonia and Iraq. I was also present throughout the conflict in Gaza in 2014. Based on my experience and on my observations: the Israel Defense Force, the IDF, does more to safeguard the rights of civilians in a combat zone than any other army in the history of warfare. Why is this so? Firstly, Israel is a decent country with Western values, run on democratic principles. Israel has no more interest in war than Belgium does. In fact, Israel has never started a war. The only reason it ever goes to war is to defend itself. And it has to defend itself because, unlike Belgium, it is surrounded by countries and armed groups that want to destroy it. Secondly, Judaism, with its unsurpassed moral standards, remains a major influence on the citizens of Israel. I say this as a non-Jew. Thirdly, the army is composed overwhelmingly of citizen soldiers. Israel is a small country with a small professional army. To fight a war it depends on its conscripts and its reservists. These are ordinary citizens, from professors to plumbers, called upon to defend their homes. They don't want to be fighting and they don't want to harm others. Nowhere was the essential morality and decency of the IDF more evident than in the Gaza War of 2014. If ever there was a purely defensive war, this was it. The war was started by Hamas, the terror organization, designated as such by the US State Department, that runs the Gaza strip. In the first six months of 2014, Hamas launched hundreds of rockets at Israeli civilians. After repeated warnings from Israel to stop, the Israeli Air Force finally conducted precision strikes to halt the rocket-fire. And the IDF advanced into Gaza to destroy a network of terror tunnels that Hamas had constructed to attack Israeli communities near the Gaza border. The IDF took extraordinary measures to give Gaza civilians notice of targeted areas, dropping millions of leaflets, broadcasting radio messages, sending texts and making tens of thousands of phone calls. Let me repeat that. The Israelis called Gazans on their cell phones and told them to leave their residences and move to safety. Never in the history of warfare has an army phoned its enemy and told them where they are going to drop their bombs. Many IDF missions that could have taken out Hamas military capabilities were aborted to prevent civilian casualties, increasing the risk to Israeli citizens and soldiers. Despite all of this, of course innocent civilians were killed. Every war is chaotic and confusing, and mistakes are frequent. But mistakes are not war crimes. Hamas, on the other hand, committed war crimes as official government policy. Hamas deliberately positioned its military assets among the civilian population, hiding weapons in schools and hospitals, and placing rocket launchers alongside apartment buildings, then forced those civilians to stay in areas they knew would be attacked. They also instructed their people to report the lie that every Gazan killed was a civilian, even if they were actually fighters. And if there were no civilian deaths, Hamas made them up! Numerous Internet sites show Palestinians elaborately staging sniper victims and smashed ambulances, among other phony horrors. It's so common there's even a term for it -- Pallywood, as in Palestinian Hollywood. Ironically, it's the leaders of Hamas themselves who best understand the extraordinary measures the IDF will take to protect innocent civilians. They take full advantage of Israel's decency and adherence to the laws of war. No army takes such risks in order to protect civilians as the Israeli army does. I say this as a professional soldier. I say it because it's true. And people who care about truth should know it. I'm Colonel Richard Kemp for Prager University.
One of the most persistent claims in the climate debate is that global warming leads to more extreme weather. This is a common concern expressed by those who fear a dangerously warming planet. President Barack Obama did so eloquently in his 2013 State of the Union Address when he talked about the devastating impact of raging fires, and crippling drought, and more powerful storms. Many others have offered similar sentiments. Global warming is a problem that needs to be addressed, but exaggeration doesn't help. It often distracts us from simple, cheaper and smarter solutions. To find those solutions, let's address the three horsemen of the climate apocalypse to which President Obama referred. Historical analysis of wildfires around the world shows that since 1950 their numbers have decreased globally by 15%. Estimates published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences shows that even with global warming, the level of wildfires will continue to decline until midcentury and won't resume on the level of 1950 -- the worst for fire -- before the end of the century. Claiming that droughts are a consequence of global warming is also wrong. The world has not seen a general increase in drought. A study published in Nature in March 2014 shows globally that there has been little change in drought over the past 60 years. The U.N. Climate Panel in 2012 concluded: "Some regions of the world have experienced more intense and longer droughts, in particular in southern Europe and West Africa, but in some regions droughts have become less frequent, less intense, or shorter, for example, in central North America and northwestern Australia." And finally, the third horseman: hurricanes. Global hurricane activity today, measured by total energy, hasn't been lower since the 1970s. While it is likely that we will see somewhat stronger (but fewer) storms as climate change continues, damages will be lower because we'll be better adapted. A March 2012 Nature study shows that the global damage cost from hurricanes will be 0.02% of gross domestic product by 2100 -- down 50% from today's 0.04%. Let me make this clear: this does not mean that climate change isn't an issue. It means that exaggerating the threat concentrates resources in the wrong areas. Consider hurricanes (though similar points hold for wildfire and drought). If the aim is to reduce storm damage, then first focus on resilience -- better building codes and better enforcement of those codes. Ending subsidies for hurricane insurance to discourage building in vulnerable zones would also help, as would investing in better infrastructure (from stronger levees to higher-capacity sewers). These solutions are quick and comparatively cheap. Most important, they would diminish future hurricane damage, whether climate-induced or not. Had New York and New Jersey focused resources on building sea walls and adding storm doors to the subway system and making simple fixes like porous pavements, Hurricane Sandy would have caused much less damage. In the long run, the world needs to cut carbon dioxide because it causes global warming. But if the main effort to cut emissions is through subsidies for chic renewables like wind and solar power, virtually no good will be achieved -- at very high cost. The cost of climate policies just for the European Union -- intended to reduce emissions by 2020 to 20% below 1990 levels -- are estimated at about $250 billion annually, or about $20 trillion over the century. And the benefits, when estimated using a standard climate model, will reduce temperatures only by an immeasurable one-tenth of a degree Fahrenheit by the end of the century. Even in 2040, under its most optimistic scenario, the International Energy Agency estimates that just 2.2% of the world's energy will come from wind and solar. As is the case today, almost 80% will still come from fossil fuels. As long as green energy is more expensive than fossil fuels, growing consumer markets like those in China and India will continue mostly to be powered by them. Solar, wind, and other renewables are still inefficient because they require subsidies of more than $120 billion a year. And even in 2040, they won't be efficient. The International Energy Agency estimates they will still require more than $200 billion dollars annually. Instead of pouring money into subsidies for existing, inefficient wind and solar energy, we'd be far better off supporting research and development of green energy technologies to make them cheaper, faster. When innovation eventually makes green energy as cheap or cheaper than fossil fuel energy, everyone will use it, including China and India. Until then, let's cool the fear mongering and make practical decisions that will help people now. I'm Bjorn Lomborg, President of the Copenhagen Consensus Center.
Campaign finance reform is what it pretends to combat: corruption. Let me say that again, slightly rephrased: campaign finance reform corrupts the political system it presumes to save from corruption. Now that I've taken the trouble to repeat myself, you may be shaking your head, wondering how I could be so wrong. Don't we want to get money out of politics? Isn't campaign finance reform an inherent good? The late Senator Eugene McCarthy, the iconic liberal politician of the Vietnam War era, didn't think so. McCarthy, a Democrat who represented Minnesota in the Senate from 1959 to 1971, did something unthinkable in 1968. Because of his opposition to the Vietnam War, he challenged a powerful, incumbent President for his party's presidential nomination. His challenge to President Lyndon Johnson was possible -- and potent -- only because five wealthy liberals who shared McCarthy's opposition to the Vietnam War gave him substantial sums of money. Stewart Mott's $210,000 would be $1.4 million in today's dollars. The five donors' seed money enabled McCarthy to raise $11 million dollars or $75 million dollars today. But, because of campaign finance reform, the most a wealthy quintet could give to help an insurgent against an incumbent today would be $13,000 (five times the individual limit of $2,600). McCarthy didn't win the nomination, but he did compel Johnson not to run for a second term. In doing so, McCarthy changed history. But the Democratic Party establishment wasn't happy about it. To stop it from happening again, they pushed for government regulation of political speech. Thus in reaction to Eugene McCarthy's insurgency, campaign finance reform was born. Not much has changed since then. Whatever their stated intentions, campaign finance laws are not written to protect the public from corrupt politicians, they are written to protect incumbents from anyone who might challenge them. So, not only doesn't campaign finance reform disrupt the status quo; it encases it in cement. All the laws that ever have regulated campaigns, or ever will regulate them, have had or will have one thing in common: They have been, or will be, written by incumbent legislators. That is why such laws are presumptively disreputable and usually unconstitutional. But, reformers shout, politicians are bought and sold by big money interests, and we have to stop this. These reformers argue two propositions. One is that corruption is so pervasive and so subtle that it is invisible. They resemble the zealots who say proof of the conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy is the fact that no proof has been found. Alternatively, reformers argue that corruption is entirely visible everywhere: If politician A votes in a way that pleases contributor B - particularly if contributor B enjoyed "access" to politician A - that shall be designated corruption. But there is abundant research demonstrating that money almost always moves toward the politician with whom the contributor already agrees. In other words money is rarely given in order to change a politicians' votes; it is given in order to support politicians who already vote the way donors want them to. Nevertheless, reformers increasingly argue (see their justifications for restricting political action committees or PAC's) that regulating the timing, amount and content of political advocacy is necessary to improve the tone of politics. These reformers apparently think that what James Madison, the author of the Bill of Rights, meant when he wrote: "Congress shall make no law abridging freedom of speech, was really "Congress shall make no law abridging freedom of speech -- unless incumbents think abridgements will help keep them in office. Even if it were Congress's business to decide that there is "too much" money in politics, what does too much mean? In the 2007-08 election cycle, spending in all campaigns, from city council members up to the presidency, was $8.6 billion, about what Americans spend annually on potato chips. Reformers say that regulation of campaign giving and spending will not only spare our leaders the distraction of the governed -- that is, seeking "undue" influence on government, it also will make us think better of government. But a jaundiced view of government is often sensible, and certainly it is justified by all these campaign regulations, which have become a particularly virulent form of the disease it purports to cure. So, let me repeat myself a third and final time: Campaign finance reform is what it pretends to combat: corruption. I'm George Will for Prager University.
I'm guessing you've heard of the acclaimed TV show Game of Thrones. Seven kingdoms vying for power, plots within plots, watch your back or lose your head. It's great. But you've probably never heard of a real life drama that I call the Game of Loans. That's a game Washington politicians play on young people, that is, college students, every day. Just like Game of Thrones, the Game of Loans has plots within plots, big winners and big losers. The winners are politicians and colleges. They fool students into thinking that by generously providing ever-larger college loans to cover ever-larger tuition costs, they have earned students' votes at election time. Why do I say students are fooled? Because it is thanks to the very politicians who promise students more and more aid -- in league with the colleges -- that college tuition became so expensive in the first place. Here's how the game works. According to Bloomberg News, since 1978 the cost of a college education has gone up by over 1000% percent. Way past the rate of inflation. Tuition alone at many colleges is 20, 40, even 50 thousand dollars a year! So, how do you pay for it? Answer: student loans, loans that the government is happy to give you since they collect the interest. You don't have to be a finance major to figure out that all these student loans give colleges no incentive to cut costs. Instead, it gives them every incentive to raise costs. Higher tuition obviously means more money for the college. Now if students were going to college in record numbers to study engineering or computer science or biology -- professions with high employment rates -- maybe these crazy sums would make some sense. Maybe. But the most common majors are in the social sciences and communications -- in subjects like sociology, cinema history and gender studies. Not surprisingly these majors have very high unemployment rates, as in, they don't prepare you for a job. And these majors are mainstream! You can get a degree in storytelling, bag piping and puppet arts for your fifty thousand a year. But heres the point: colleges are no longer primarily about preparing you for a career. Today's higher education is about teaching you what a terrible country America is, social activism and binge drinking. Hey, if college didn't cost so much the parties might be worth it, but it does. The average student loan debt in America is $28,400 per borrower. Note that this is per borrower, not graduate! Big difference. A large chunk of the 1.3 trillion dollar student loan liability is held by ex-students who never graduated. For every 100 students who enter a four- year college only 59 exit with a degree. But maybe you're one of the lucky ones. You got a business degree and you found a decent job. Chances are you're paying off your student loans and will be for the next 10, 20 or even 30 years! Good luck saving money for a down payment on a house or just about anything else. Mike Rowe from the TV show Dirty Jobs nicely summarized the issue this way: "We are lending money we don't have to kids who can't pay it back to train them for jobs that no longer exist." So, am I saying that college is always a waste of time and money? Of course not. But I am saying this: 1) Remember that if you take out a student loan, it's not free money. You actually have to pay it back. I know this sounds ridiculously basic but it's also ridiculously important. And since you owe this money to the federal government, you can't get out of it, even if you declare bankruptcy. 2) Whenever you hear politicians say they want to make college more affordable, what they're really saying is that they want to get the youth vote while making it easier for you to dig yourself into a deep hole. These politicians don't have your best interest at heart. They have their own best interest at heart -- namely, getting elected. You don't owe them anything. The Game of Loans is rigged -- and not in your favor. But if you're smart about your choices, you can beat the odds. I'm Charlie Kirk of Turning Point USA for Prager University.
Did you know that all success in life is based on conservative principles? Well, it's true. As I explain in my book, How to Be Right: the Art of Being Persuasively Correct, if liberals applied their no-score, no-winner, no-loser belief systems to their hobbies or professions, they would fail miserably. Success relies on absolute truths, on supply and demand, on work and reward, on competition, and on achievement, not group identity. As the old saying goes, it doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice. Conservatives catch mice. Liberals buy them cheese -- with your money. It's interesting that people who participate in professions that require conservative values are so often on the Left. Here are three examples you might not have thought of. Example One: The Musician You'd think all of them are liberals in their personal lives, but only a few can actually afford to be. Smart musicians are often the most conservative people on the planet. Someone has to pay for the gas, the guitar strings, and the antibiotics. When you see your favorite metal band, you can bet that the whole tour is mapped out not as some hippy-dippy road trip, but as a meticulously planned endeavor to wring every penny of profit out of it. Maybe it's not surprising then that the most successful rock band in history is headed by someone who studied finance and accounting at the London School of Economics -- Mick Jagger. (And, yes, it's true "Satisfaction" was about the joy of capital gains). Example Two: Fitness As a former editor of a health magazine, I can attest: the government cannot give you six-pack abs (unless you get them to pay for the implants). Exercise is perhaps the best example of conservative thinking at your disposal. For the amount of effort you put in, you reap the reward you deserve. If you pump iron for two hours, three times a week, your body will change as a direct result. Fitness is one bank where you deposit effort and you build a portfolio of reward. There is no affirmative action in exercise. One muscle doesn't get special dispensation because it's smaller or weaker. There is no minimum wage safety net, or unemployed bennies for your glutes -- you're either in shape or you're not. No one is gonna redistribute my awesome pecs. As President Barack Obama famously once said, You didn't build that. Sorry, but I did. Example Three: Cooking There are boatloads of cooking shows these days, populated by spiky-haired women and tattooed love-patched beardos from Brooklyn. They all look so Occupy Wall Street -- but when they enter the kitchen they become the Wolves of Wall Street. There are no feelings behind that butcher block; there's no room for if it feels good, do it. Restaurants that require reservations weeks or months in advance got that way because of reliance on a diligent work ethic. Every body involved from the chef to the wait staff to dishwashers strive night in, night out to make great food and produce a great experience. You cannot reach that pinnacle without being intensely competitive and results-oriented, in other words, a capitalist. In the end, cooking is really just building a successful enterprise, with food. And it must taste good, not fulfill a greater good. All success in life is based on conservative principles. Ponder that the next time you hear a great piece of music, hit the gym or eat a tasty meal. If you do, you might realize you're not as liberal as you think. I'm Greg Gutfeld.
Here's a tragedy, in its way, on the level of King Lear or Hamlet. To get a bachelor's degree in English literature at the University of California at Los Angeles, one of the most prestigious colleges in America, you must take courses in Gender, Race, Ethnicity, Disability or Sexuality Studies; in Imperial Transnational or Post-Colonial Studies; and in Critical Theory. But you are not required to take a single course in Shakespeare. In other words, the UCLA English faculty is now officially indifferent as to whether an English major has ever read a word of the greatest writer of the English language, but is determined to expose students, according to the course catalogue, to alternative rubrics of gender, sexuality, race, and class. Sadly, UCLA is not leading a movement; it is following one. That movement seeks to infuse the humanities curriculum with the characteristic academic traits of our time: narcissism, an obsession with victimhood, and a relentless determination to reduce the stunning complexity of the past to identity and class politics. In so doing, the modern professoriate has repudiated the great humanist tradition on which much of Western Civilization -- and the Western university -- has been built. That tradition was founded on an all-consuming desire to engage with the genius of the past. The 14th century Florentine poet Francesco Petrarch triggered the explosion of knowledge known today as the Renaissance with his discovery of Livy's monumental history of Rome and the letters of Cicero, the Roman statesman whose ideas would inspire the likes of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. Petrarch's burning drive to recover the lost cultures of Greece and Rome was widely shared and propelled the Renaissance humanists to search for long-forgotten manuscripts in remote castles and monasteries across Europe. The great universities spread this new knowledge across the Western world, teaching it to students who in turn taught it to the next generation. Now compare the classical humanists' hunger for learning with the resentment of a Columbia University student, who had been required by Columbia's freshman core curriculum to study Mozart. Why did I have to listento this Mozart? she complained. My problem with the core is that it upholds the premises of white supremacy and racism. There are no women, no people of color. These are not the idiosyncratic thoughts of one foolish student. They represent the dominant ideology in the humanities today. This student learned to think like this at the university itself. Rather than encouraging students to engage with the great minds of the past, today's humanities professors seek only to confirm their own worldview. The annual gathering of America's literature faculty put at the top of its 2014 agenda the discussion of embodiment, poverty, climate, activism, reparation, and the condition of being unequally governed, all in order to expose key sites of vulnerability and assess possibilities for change. Lost in this political posturing is the only true justification for the humanities -- to provide: knowledgeknowledge leading, one hopes, to the most important acquisition of all: wisdom. The American founders drew on an astonishingly wide range of historical and philosophical sources and on a healthy skepticism about human nature to craft the most stable and free republic in world history. Ignorance of those sources, which led to the West's rule of law and its unparalleled prosperity, puts these unique and monumental achievements at risk. But humanistic learning is above all an end in itself. It is simply better to escape one's narrow, self-centered mind and to live inside the prose of George Eliot, the music of Bach or the art of van Dyck than never to have done so. Ultimately, it is the loving duty we owe those writers, artists and thinkers whose works made our world possible. The academic narcissist, oblivious to beauty and nobility, knows none of this. That's bad enough, but to deny such glorious knowledge and wisdom to students? That's a tragedy on a Shakespearian scale. I'm Heather Mac Donald of The Manhattan Institute for Prager University.
Are wind and solar power the answer to our energy needs? There's a lot of sun and a lot of wind. They're free. They're clean. No CO2 emissions. So, what's the problem? Why do solar and wind combined provide less than 2% of the world's energy? To answer these questions, we need to understand what makes energy, or anything else for that matter, cheap and plentiful. For something to be cheap and plentiful, every part of the process to produce it, including every input that goes into it, must be cheap and plentiful. Yes, the sun is free. Yes, wind is free. But the process of turning sunlight and wind into useable energy on a mass scale is far from free. In fact, compared to the other sources of energy -- fossil fuels, nuclear power, and hydroelectric power, solar and wind power are very expensive. The basic problem is that sunlight and wind as energy sources are both weak (the more technical term is dilute) and unreliable (the more technical term is intermittent). It takes a lot of resources to collect and concentrate them, and even more resources to make them available on-demand. These are called the diluteness problem and the intermittency problem. The diluteness problem is that, unlike coal or oil, the sun and the wind don't deliver concentrated energy -- which means you need a lot of additional materials to produce a unit of energy. For solar power, such materials can include highly purified silicon, phosphorus, boron, and a dozen other complex compounds like titanium dioxide. All these materials have to be mined, refined and/or manufactured in order to make solar panels. Those industrial processes take a lot of energy. For wind, needed materials include high-performance compounds for turbine blades and the rare-earth metal neodymium for lightweight, specialty magnets, as well as the steel and concrete necessary to build structures -- thousands of them -- as tall as skyscrapers. And as big a problem as diluteness is, it's nothing compared to the intermittency problem. This isn't exactly a news flash, but the sun doesn't shine all the time. And the wind doesn't blow all the time. The only way for solar and wind to be truly useful would be if we could store them so that they would be available when we needed them. You can store oil in a tank. Where do you store solar or wind energy? No such mass-storage system exists. Which is why, in the entire world, there is not one real or proposed independent, freestanding solar or wind power plant. All of them require backup. And guess what the go-to back-up is: fossil fuel. Here's what solar and wind electricity look like in Germany, which is the world's leader in renewables. The word erratic leaps to mind. Wind is constantly varying, sometimes disappearing completely. And solar produces little in the winter months when Germany most needs energy. Therefore, some reliable source of energy is needed to do the heavy lifting. In Germany's case that energy is coal. So, while Germany has spent tens of billions of dollars to subsidize solar panels and windmills, fossil fuel use in that nation has not decreased, it's increased -- and less than 10% of their total energy is generated by solar and wind. Furthermore, switching back and forth between solar and wind and coal to maintain a steady flow of energy is costly. Utility bills for the average German have gone up so dramatically that energy poverty has become a popular term to describe those who cannot pay -- or who can barely pay -- their electricity bills. If those bills one day go down, the reason will not be more solar and wind energy, but lower oil and coal prices. There's no free lunch. And there's no free energy. And that very much includes the highly expensive energy from the sun and the wind. I'm Alex Epstein of the Center for Industrial Progress, for Prager University.
Pretty much everybody regards the Golden Rule -- "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you" -- as the best guide to moral behavior. But did you ever consider this rule in terms of speech, in how you talk about others? We all acknowledge that it's wrong to spread untruths about people, but many of us seem to feel that it's okay to say anything about another as long as it's true. But the fact that something is true doesn't mean that it is necessarily anybody else's concern. Do you want every aspect of your life made known to others -- even if true? How important is it to guard our tongues? A lifetime of experience suggests to me that unfair speech is a major, not a minor, issue. I often ask listeners at workshops I conduct on the ethics of speech: 'How many of you can think of at least one embarrassing personal incident, that were it to become widely known, would negatively impact your life?" Almost all the hands go up, except for those who have led very boring lives, have poor memories, or are lying. What is perverse about human nature is that while we don't want others to know about such events in our lives, almost all of us are just aching to learn and speak about such events in the lives of others. Let's analyze this further. Why exactly don't we want people to know about a highly embarrassing episode? After all, for most of us, the deep secret that we're concealing doesn't involve a criminal act. But we all know that if people learn about this one thing, it can easily become their primary association with us and with our name. Why is this so? Because, what is most interesting about people is what's not so nice about them. This is pretty much true of just about everyone. As Isaac Bashevis Singer, the Nobel Prize winning writer, used to say, "Even good people don't like to read novels about good people." If you're thinking that what I have said so far does not apply to you, that you rarely speak about others, when you do your comments are always fair, then let me pose a question and a challenge. Can you go for twenty-four hours without saying anything unkind about anyone? Invariably, when I make this challenge people laugh nervously. I can read their minds: "One day without any negative comments about anybody? My boss? My co-workers?" They're not sure they can do it. "Then you have a serious problem," I tell them. "Because if I were to ask you whether you can go for twenty-four hours without drinking alcohol and you said that you couldn't, that means that you're an alcoholic. And if you can't go for twenty-hours without speaking unkindly about another that means that you've lost control over your mouth." Regaining such control will require considerable discipline. But such self-control will also bring great comfort, admiration and trust from all those in your life. Anyway, every perceptive person knows that if you badmouth others to them, you will surely badmouth them to others! One final thought: Before you relate something negative about another, and even if you feel quite sure that what you are saying is factually accurate, ask yourself three questions: Does the person to whom I am speaking really need this information? Is what I am saying fair? Why am I saying it? I'm Joseph Telushkin for Prager University.
He was called the most hated man in America. Yet the New York Times described him as the world's greatest giver. He was America's first billionaire. And he gave half of it away. He was the quintessential so-called Robber Baron of the Gilded Age. But he was probably more responsible than any other single individual for the creation of the American middle class and the development of America as a great industrial power. He lived in a splendid mansion. But was so worried about spoiling his children that he dressed them in hand me down clothes. Song lyrics were written about him. But he rarely went to social events. His name was John D. Rockefeller. And his story is uniquely American. Born in upstate New York in 1839, he did not have an easy childhood. His father was a part time salesman and a full time philanderer. Rockefeller's mother assured John that God was the father who would never let him down. Rockefeller absorbed that message. It guided his life. Deeply religious, he put into practice the spiritual law Give and it shall be given unto you. From his teenage years to his dying day, Rockefeller always gave a portion of his income to charity. Rockefeller's special gift to the world was kerosene, cheap kerosene, cheap enough that anyone could buy it. Before the formation of his signature company, Standard Oil, people lit their homes with candles and heated them with coal or wood. The candles were dim and the coal was dirty. Rockefeller's affordable kerosene -- processed crude oil -- made the world brighter, warmer, cleaner, and better -- for everyone. We must ever remember, Rockefeller wrote to one of his partners in 1885, we are refining oil for the poor man and he must have it cheap and good. Rockefeller loved the business of business. He attended to every detail -- always with the same goal, saving the customer money. That he made so much of it himself was a byproduct. He was also scrupulously honest. His first partner, Maurice Clark said, If there was a cent due a customer, he wanted the customer to have it. Rockefeller displayed genius at getting creative ideas from his employees at Standard Oil. He paid them well -- and rarely had labor problems. He generously rewarded his chemists and engineers when they found new ways to get more kerosene out of a barrel of oil. Other oil refiners dumped oil waste into nearby rivers. That repulsed Rockefeller who was perhaps the greatest environmentalist of his age. Not only was he a great lover of nature, he was the ultimate recycler. He believed there was a God-given use for every particle in a barrel of oil and he was determined to find it. After the kerosene had been removed, Rockefeller's staff found uses for the remaining components: the gasoline as fuel, some of the tars for paving, and other by-products to manufacture paint, varnish, and even anesthetics. It's hard to imagine that the automobile industry would have even come into existence without the availability of Rockefeller's cheap oil. When Henry Ford was ready with his Model-T, Rockefeller was ready to supply the gas. By the early decades of the new century, millions of Americans had jobs in oil-related industries. Those jobs helped to build the American middle class. As Rockefeller said, We saw the vast possibilities of the oil industry, stood at the center of it, and brought our knowledge and imagination and business experience to bear in a dozen, in twenty, in thirty directions. Rockefeller was an oddity -- the first billionaire in U.S. history, but no one could out-give him. From the time of his first job, earning 50 cents a day, the sixteen-year-old Rockefeller gave to his local Baptist church, to missions in New York City, and to the poor -- black or white. He believed in the biblical admonition that not money, but the love of money was the root of all evil. Rockefeller supported churches and missionaries all over the world; lavishly endowed colleges like the University of Chicago and Spelman College, a black women's college, named after his wife, Laura; and gave millions to medical research. Before he died in 1937 in his 98th year, he had given away about $550,000,000, which was more than any other American had ever possessed. So, if he did so much good during his life, why is he most commonly remembered today as the paradigm of a greedy capitalist? The answer to that question, I'm afraid, has much more to do with our educational system than with Rockefeller himself. Maybe it's time to take a fresh look at both. I'm Burt Folsom, professor of History at Hillsdale College, for Prager University.
What is the world's most dangerous ideology? In the first part of the 20th century, the answer was Fascism; first manifest in Italy in the 1920's, and then in Nazi Germany and in Imperial Japan. It took a world war and 50 million dead to stamp it out. In the second half of the 20th century, the answer was Communism. Between the Soviet Union, Mao's China and their client states, at least 100 million people were killed in its wake. Today, the answer is Islamism, a radical, and often violent, form of Islam. Like Fascism and Communism, Islamism is totalitarian in nature: the state controls everything. Also like Fascism and Communism, Islamism is inherently expansionist. It always seeks to get bigger, cross borders, and bring as many peoples as possible under its control. And, like Fascism and communism, many of Islamism's adherents are prepared to kill to achieve its aims. Those aims are antithetical to everything Western and other free societies stand for: free speech, free enterprise, freedom to practice, or not to practice, any religion, freedom of assembly, a free press and, of course, fundamental human and civil rights for all their citizens. Islamism completely rejects the Western principle of separating religion from government. In its view, governments are legitimate only if they rule according to religious law -- in Islamism's case, Sharia, Islam's extensive body of sacred laws. Sharia is based on the teachings of the Quran and the Sunnah. The Quran is believed to be the literal words of Allah, as revealed to his prophet Muhammad in the 7th century. And the Sunna consists of the words and deeds attributed to Muhammad. Islamists interpret Sharia to hold that anyone born Muslim must remain Muslim and face execution if they convert to any another religion; that adulterers must be stoned to death; that anyone who insults Islam or Mohammed must either be severely whipped or executed, and that thieves should have a limb cut off. In addition, Islamists condone polygamy and child-marriage. These beliefs are being put into practice right now in, among other places, Iran, the Sudan, Saudi Arabia, the Muslim parts of Nigeria, parts of Pakistan Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan -- and wherever else Sharia has established a foothold. If Islamists were content to live under strict Sharia law in their own communities and leave everyone who doesn't want to live that way alone, they wouldn't be a threat to the rest of the world. But that would not be Islamism. Islamism wants the entire world governed by Sharia. And anyone who opposes Islamist expansionism is the enemy and must be destroyed. That, of course, includes the United States, all of Europe and Israel. But it also includes fellow Muslims. Indeed, Islamists have killed far more Muslims than members of any other group. So, how many Islamists are there? Nobody knows for sure. But we can make some conservative calculations. There are approximately one and a half billion Muslims in the world. How many of these are Islamists? A 2013 Pew Research Poll offers some clues. 86 percent of Muslims in Pakistan, 80 percent in Egypt, and 65 percent in Jordan, support the stoning of adulterers. 79 percent in Afghanistan, 62 percent of Palestinians, and 58 percent in Malaysia, considered a moderate Muslim country, support the death penalty for Muslims who convert from Islam. If only 10 percent of the world's Muslims are Islamists -- and the percentage is likely higher -- that's 150 million people. Among these, how many are willing to take violent action to enforce their Islamism? Here we're talking about Al Qaeda, the Islamic State, the Taliban, Hamas, Hezbollah, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab, and other groups that send suicide bombers into markets, explode car bombs at funerals, throw acid in the faces of girls who attend school, murder sisters or daughters who defy the will of a brother or father, or who fly hijacked airplanes into buildings. This is a very a hard number to pin down. So let's again be cautious and say the figure is only 2% of that 150 million. That's still three million people. Three million potential terrorists organized by a common ideology -- and supported by many more. The good news is that hundreds of millions of Muslims are not radical Islamists. Just to cite one example the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood governed Egypt for one year in 2012. But enough Egyptians were so outraged by the Brotherhood's harsh imposition of Sharia law that they staged perhaps the largest demonstrations in human history against the Muslim Brotherhood and brought that government down. Since the beginning of the twentieth century, every generation has been confronted with a lethal threat to freedom and fundamental human rights. Free people defeated the last two totalitarian threats, Fascism and Communism. If we want to preserve freedom, we, non Muslims and Muslims alike, will have to defeat the threat of our time -- Islamism. I'm Raymond Ibrahim, author of the Al-Qaeda Reader, for Prager University.
Why are you Right? Yes, you, conservative person. Can you answer that question? I think it's so important that I wrote a book about it -- How to be Right: The Art of Being Persuasively Correct. Because if you can't be persuasive about why you are right, then we, the United States of America and the Republic for which it stands, are lost. So, here is the simple answer to why you are Right: It is a more practical, generous, and compassionate way to live. Let me explain: There have been a bunch of academic studies on how those on the Left and Right approach problems. They pretty much all come to the same conclusion. The Right tends to be risk averse, more concerned about external threats like tyranny and terror. Conservatives -- get this -- tend to be conservative. They are less likely to play with fire, in just about every sense: financially, artistically, sexually. They are cautious about changing traditions (sometimes to a fault), which is why they cling to that crazy Constitution they like so much -- and to their guns and their religion. We conservatives also focus on what we can fix, and accept what we cannot -- which is one of the many reasons we're not obsessed over global warming. With Radical Islam we know what the threat is, and that it's a lot worse than a few missing polar bears (I know that makes me sound mean -- sorry polar bears). Liberals, the research tells us, are generally more outgoing, more likely to try new stuff. They are open to new ideas (though not school choice, or flat taxes, or a market based health care reform), and are less likely to feel threatened by unfamiliar things. This is why, in general, they seem to have more fun. They are more likely to try drugs, for example (which is fine, as long as they don't end up throwing up in my toaster). In short, liberals are pretty liberal. They feel free to take risks that the risk-averse usually end up paying for -- over and over. Which explains the necessity for conservatism. We are the clean-up crew. Liberals may seem to have more fun (and many do), but according to polls they aren't as happy as conservatives. And with all the fun they're having, I've never quite figured out why the angriest people I've encountered in my life have been liberals. Maybe it's because short-term fun doesn't translate into long-term happiness. Marriage, families and religion do that and those are the things conservatives most value. Liberals tend to live for now. Conservatives for later. A risk-averse conservative is more likely to save money. He is more likely to protect his investments. He is more likely to protect property, and advocate for rule of law and preservation of individual protections. And he offers no excuses for looting. Instead, he empathizes with the Asian, Arab and black small businessman whose convenience store, laundry or restaurant goes up into flames during the riot that liberals reflexively endorse as an "understandable response to injustice." Of course, conservatives aren't risk-averse in everything. But they take risks with their own lives, not with the society. Conservatives risk all to build businesses. That risk, however, is rooted in a fact-based belief (not faith) in the free market. If people want the product or service you're supplying at the price you're asking, you will succeed and the risk will pay off. Over time, it's conservative risk-taking that creates a civilization, by building families, businesses, and nations. All of which creates more wealth -- wealth that can then be used to help those in need. You need money to make money, but you also need money to give money. Conservatism makes what liberalism takes. So, for example, for liberals to get their minimum-wage hike, first we need conservatives to build businesses, to think like businessmen, to sacrifice their own salaries in order to pay others; to sleep on floors if necessary in order to break even. Then when they make a profit, and things are going great -- when the calm sets in -- liberalism can appear and say, "How dare you not pay these people a living wage?" Once the tables are full of diners, and bills are being paid, and you're thinking about opening a second joint, liberalism arrives to demand its cut. Think of it as a protection racket. Sort of like the Gambino family, but without loyalty, job prospects, and track suits. In short, conservatism doesn't compete with liberalism -- it sustains it. Without conservatism, there is no liberalism. And so when a liberal asks you, 'Why are you a conservative?" simply say, "So that you can be a liberal." I'm Greg Gutfeld.
Many people believe that free market capitalism is selfish, even immoral. They say it's about greed, about a hunger for money and power; that it helps the rich and hurts the poor. They're wrong. The free market is not only economically superior, it is morally superior to any other way of organizing economic behavior. Here's why. The free market calls for voluntary actions between individuals. There's no coercion. In a free market, if I want something from you, I have to do something for you. Let's say I mow your lawn and you pay me twenty dollars. What does that twenty dollars really mean? When I go to the grocer and say, "I would like to have four pounds of steak" He, in effect, says to me, "You want a lot of people to serve you -- ranchers, truckers, butchers, and packagers. All these people have to be paid. What did you do to serve your fellow man?" "Well," I say, "I mowed my fellow man's lawn." And the grocer says, "Prove it." Then I offer him the twenty dollars. Think of the money that you've earned as a certificate of performance. It's proof that you've served your fellow man. People accuse the free market of not being moral because they say it's a zero-sum game, like poker, where if you win, it means that I have to lose. But the free market is not a zero-sum game. It's a positive sum game. You do something good for me, such as give me that steak and I'll do something good for you -- give you twenty dollars. I'm better off because I valued the steak more than I valued the $20 and the grocer is better off because he valued the $20 more than he valued the steak. We both win. Ironically, it's the government, not the free market, that creates zero-sum games in our economy. If you use the government to get a food stamp, a farm subsidy or a business bail out, you will benefit -- but at the expense of your fellow citizens. Isn't it more moral to require that people serve their fellow man in order to have a claim on what he produces rather than not serve others and still have a claim? But, a lot of people ask, what about giant corporations? Don't they have too much power over our lives? Not in a free market. Because in a free market We, the People, decide the fate of companies who want our business. Free market capitalism will punish a corporation that does not satisfy customers or fails to use resources efficiently. Businesses, big and small, that wish to prosper are held accountable by the people who vote with their dollars. And, again, it's the government that can undo this. Take the example of the American automobile industry. It was struggling to survive in 2009. Why? Because they were producing cars that did not please a sufficient number of their fellow men. In a free market, they would therefore have gone bankrupt. The market would have said, "Look, you're done. Sell your plant and equipment to somebody who can do a better job." But when Chrysler and General Motors failed, they went to Washington D.C. and got the government to bail them out. The government bailout essentially meant to them: "You don't have to be accountable to customers and stock holders.' No matter how inferior your product is and no matter how inefficient you are, we'll keep you in business by taking your fellow man's money. When government interferes in this way, it takes the power away from the people and rewards companies that couldn't compete successfully in the marketplace. That may work out very well for politicians, big unions and corporate officers, but it seldom does for the tax payer. That's why a free market system can only work if there is limited government. Limited government means you and I decide which businesses survive. That's the America that our Founding Fathers envisioned -- a limited government that has only a few specifically mentioned -- or enumerated -- powers that are listed in Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution. It's this brilliant, limited-government notion that produced the wealthiest nation in history. In a free market, the ambition and the voluntary effort of citizens, not the government, drives the economy. That is: people, to the best of their ability, shaping their own destiny. Sounds pretty moral to me. I'm Walter Williams of George Mason University for Prager University.
How did the framers of the Constitution of the United States seek to preserve liberty and prevent tyranny? Pretty basic question. Here's the answer I usually get from my students. "Well, Professor, to protect the individual and minorities against the tyranny of the majority, they added the Bill of Rights; and they gave the power to enforce those rights to the Supreme Court." Are my students correct? The editorial boards of the New York Times or the Washington Post and many members of the U.S. Congress would say yes. Unfortunately, the answer is wrong. I say "unfortunately" because it reflects a common misunderstanding of the Constitution. And that misunderstanding has led to a serious erosion of our freedom. Let me explain. Both the Bill of Rights and judicial review -- the idea that the courts can decide if a law is Constitutional or not -- were hotly debated items when the Constitution was being drafted in 1789. The Federalists, the group led by Alexander Hamilton that wanted a national constitution, opposed including a Bill of Rights. They feared it would actually undermine what the Federalists regarded as the main protections against tyranny in the document -- the limited nature of the national government itself. The Constitution did not envision a national government of general jurisdiction -- meaning a government that could do whatever it wanted -- but rather, a government of enumerated and delegated powers -- a government that had authority over only specific areas of American life. All other powers were to be beyond the scope of the national government and reserved to the States or to the American people themselves. That's why, when political necessity forced the Federalists to yield to demands for a Bill of Rights, they took care to add two important amendments -- the ninth and tenth: "The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people," and "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." These amendments reinforced the idea that the national government couldn't just assume powers it had not been specifically granted by the Constitution. Unfortunately, these amendments have not stymied the expansion of the national authority. The power grab the Federalists feared -- the national government taking more and more control over more and more areas of American life -- took place. Not immediately, but over time, and especially beginning in the second half of the 20th century. That same time frame has seen a similar concentration of power in the judiciary, especially in the Supreme Court -- so that now, most Americans think of the Supreme Court as the ultimate arbiter of almost every social and political dispute. The Founders never envisioned the court in this role. How has the Court fared in playing it? Well, there have been moments of glory, to be sure, such as in the racial de-segregation case of Brown v. Board of Education in the 1950s But it has also handed down decision after decision -- from Dred Scott v. Sandford in the 1850s, which facilitated the expansion of slavery, to Roe v. Wade in the 1970s, which legalized abortion throughout the United States -- in which the justices have plainly overstepped the bounds of their authority by creating law from the bench, thereby further expanding their own power and that of the national government. Moreover, the Supreme Court has done little to stop the executive and legislative branches of the national government from unconstitutionally overreaching. Recently, the Court found a way, by a bare majority, to uphold an obvious case of constitutional overreach by the national government -- the imposition of a law -- or individual mandate, as it is known -- requiring every citizen to purchase health insurance coverage as part of President Obama's signature "Affordable Care Act." The government defended this mandate as a legitimate exercise of its expressly delegated power to regulate commerce among the states. The trouble is that the mandate does not regulate commerce at all; rather, it forces people into commerce on pain of a financial penalty. But why did the issue get to the courts at all? Congress and the president should have recognized and honored the fact that the Constitution simply does not empower the national government to impose a mandate on the people to purchase products, whether health insurance or anything else. We've drifted a long way from the original vision of the Founders. The further we've drifted, the more powerful the national government has grown, and the less free Americans have become. Freedom can be taken away, but it can also be given away -- out of sheer ignorance. If we Americans, we the people, want to get some of that freedom back, we need to read America's founding documents. All the freedom we ever wanted is there. I'm Robert George, Professor of Jurisprudence at Princeton University for Prager University.